for example we were looking at you know
the the patch for Ping and we asked
about what is the definition for the
struct IP like let's compare how do I
find this struct definition in Google
struct IP definition and then this is
probably my best guess find this here
and then I see in here uh okay code so
where exactly does t where's it now
exactly distract so I press Ctrl F try
to find it struct IP ah there it is it's
in the middle of this file and now oh my
God it's like depending on the byte
order now I have to think about like I
don't know like there's some if defines
this stuff while I just type it here can
you show me the struct IP definition and
it just like told me even where it's
from it starts explaining it as well
what is the size of struct Ip it just
told us it's 20 bytes even with example
code how you could figure it out if you
don't trust it you could also copy and
paste and verify this now
