so I got invited to troopers 17 in
Heidelberg and it was a really great
conference so a lot of conferences like
this include a creative conference badge
so this trooper 17 batch is super
interesting as you can see because it
has a Nokia 3310 phone strapped onto it
and I especially love it because that
was the phone I had when I was a
teenager and now revisiting this old
piece of hardware and seeing the
capabilities of it but with my current
knowledge is fascinating
[Music]
so when you get the badge you first have
to solder some parts yourself if you
want to use some of the other features
as you can see there is an atmega 32:8
basically in arduino and there are a few
buttons and LEDs and these are infrared
LEDs the phone also contains a trooper
SIM card so they were running their own
GSM network in the conference center so
my phone number during the conference
was nine one zero eight two there were
also a few puzzles and secrets that
could be discovered with the bench for
example you could play hangman by
sending SMS to a certain number so for
example I'm taking here a guess for a
letter and in a few seconds you get back
a response and so that's quite fun and
when you win a certain amount of times
you get a flag that is worth points so
there was also this kind of like
conference CTF but it was more like a
scavenger hunt you can also see these
cables coming out from under the battery
two of them are just for power supply so
the PCB can be powered from the phone's
battery and the other two are data lines
but let me introduce you to Brian badge
wizard on Twitter he's one of the people
behind the badge and can tell us a bit
more about it
so the phone itself actually it's a
plain low key Nokia of 33 tons but more
interestingly is obviously how the PCB
interacts with the phone and you can see
those cables coming out from behind
which are the the two lines in the back
here which is the F bus connector the
other pins are ground in the emboss and
basically this is the interface that in
past years were used to actually
configure ringtones to read text
messages from the device to add new
pictures you know these provider
pictures and yeah basically of all the
stuff that you could buy by a job are
sparboe is exactly the stuff that you
could bring onto the form that
which sparboe he's referring here to the
terrible subscriptions where you could
download these ringtones and images and
the magazines from my childhood were
full of them I guess these existed in
other countries too and though I was
wondering what exactly is being sent
over these wires is it some standard
like cereal it's a serial protocol
running at 115 200 board only that speed
so actually if you start looking at it
you see sync works
sending uuu which embodies one zero one
zero one zero but the phone doesn't
actually care about it so it's actually
only using this one board right
it's then got a binary protocol which
goes across the set thing actually is
not yet never actually published the
documentation on it so there is lots of
stuff in software projects like Gamu and
VAR mu which are actually projects
controlling of your phones and a few
others and they basically reverse
engineer to complete protocol and there
are where the documentation is actually
their source code so you actually go to
the source code and try to work on how
they did it and then you know we kind of
reprogrammed it on the on the badge oh
wow
that already sounds like a lot of work
to implement on the atmega so I want to
know what exactly happens when you press
a certain button my understanding was
that sometimes it could send out an SMS
or also react to incoming SMS so the
best approach is the basic mind feature
that we wanted to have was you know a
little bit of IOT inspiration
controlling lights as such when text
message comes into the phone the micro
control which is basically another
window you know 80 mega 320 IP
permanently watches the earth bus and
when the signal comes in on the F cross
which always happens when a text message
comes in the chip will see the text
message we'll take it where
interpreted and will as such control the
LEDs or do whatever we want using the
button is exactly the other way around
we've got an interrupt law aloof
watching that button as soon as the
button is pressed a little bit of VMware
started which then fires up the F bus
and basically just tells the Nokia phone
to send a text message that sounds
fairly straightforward and easy if you
ignore the hard work put into
understanding the message format and
implementing this so as the board is
like an Arduino can you still intact
with it with a computer yes so we've got
the auto in bootloader and the serial
data that we've got on there if you've
got an FTDI cable a normal USB to serial
adapter you can hook it up to the other
window ID and this program we've got
debug messages coming out so every time
when the phone talks to the chip
there'll be a few message messages
generated so that you can actually see
that it works how it works but above
that of course you know you can use the
PCB as a bridge if you've got the USB
serial adapter to the phone to the
computer so that you can basically do
whatever you want you know what let's
just try that I take a USB to zero cable
hook it up to the Rx and TX pin and plug
it into my laptop then I simply you
screen to connect to it and when we
press the reset button on the board we
can observe the atmega starting up and
printing messages so what else can you
tell us about the batch I noticed that
when I press this button some lights
start flashing weird
so basically four or five years back we
had a batch which was a TVB gonna you
know just press a button it just kills
all TV's that you can see and as it's
the the 10 year annual work should try
to work out something you know take some
some things of the past badges so we
added achieve you begun to dispatch we
stayed at the memory we added that which
is fired up by one of the buttons and
above that you know just fun you can
easily set up the batch and such where
that it will receive a text message and
we'll then replay binary code via the
infrared LED light which you know
nowadays is controlling TVs way
infrareds might not be that interesting
but right now down there my postman
Dominic spear on stage actually
presenting infrared hacks and how to
break devices by infrared so this is one
of those detective buses that you might
be able to use oh and when I press the
button and I still had the serial hooked
up
I also saw this message here printed
activate TV GaN start then trying two
different codes for EU or na TVs
basically when we started with the
project
brother when we actually thought about
really really doing it we had actually
aimed for a different home we wanted to
use a Motorola c11 ID which is supported
by the osmocon project which is simply a
stack of hacking and analysis tools
which was you know it's an IT security
conference I want to do 80 security so
one of the interesting parts is the 3310
also has the net monitor include
so we should be gamoo not one more you
can actually set the phone up as a as a
sniffing so if it's but non encrypted
messages you can actually read some
accident SMS and text messages from the
air so also this patch can be used as a
passive sniffer for GSM signals which is
oh that is really cool
I've never played around with the GSM
network stuff but checking out the
network monitor features sounds really
fun I put it on my list of things I
should try at some point but while all
these features are really cool I also
wanted to find out more about the
development process so I asked about
challenges they had to overcome well the
the basic hardware itself is simple
you've got the arduino schematics which
attend reuse the protocol itself i said
it's not really documented that word so
it could still got to do some
understanding and working out how it
works the biggest biggest change that we
actually had was well we still wanted
you have the functionality of being able
to connect the badge to a computer via
you out so we need one UART interface
then we need to talk to the phone which
meant mean the second viewer interface
the 80 mega 320 IP only has one year at
interface so we had to go for soft
serial and soft serial is fine at about
56 mega boards but not really good at
hundred and ten mega board and
especially not at eight megahertz so we
overthrew got actually stepping in and
writing a new soft several library for
our church which now is actually able to
do the full speeds your communication
with the phone
so with the basic theorem where all the
basic libraries that we had that
wouldn't even have been possible nice so
the typically design challenges it's
always so crazy how much work and
dedication goes into something like this
essentially a piece of hardware just
used as a gimmick for a conference I
love it
but I guess at some point parts of it
should also be open source as always
with all badges will rise along about
block balls on insinuate or not the
firmware and schematics will at some
point publish didn't get the only thing
that we won't publish that always is you
know we won't publish the layout for the
PCB because this is the truth miss Burch
it's a trooper 17 badge you know
everybody can design their own badges
their own shapes but you know this
design is its unique and it's limited so
that's awesome thank you so much for
talking about it with me it's a really
awesome badge and thanks to everybody
behind the scenes who made this badge
happen by the way I can really recommend
the troopers conference unfortunately
it's a professional conference which
means ticket prices are really high and
not something you generally buy
privately but the cool thing is that
they have limited spots available for
students and you can write a
motivational letter and maybe get a free
ticket so that's really cool and I
encourage you to do that the first
deadline for submissions is over on the
30th of November but there's a second
round until the 31st of January
[Music]
you
[Music]
