you
[Music]
hello everybody I today we are gonna do
something different it has nothing to do
really with security
so please just give me a notice if like
the audio works great and then we can
head right into the stream today so I'm
here today with again well from a
different channel that you probably know
and together we have done game
development challenge this channel just
quite frequently and I really in the
development and yeah so forces together
to develop a challenge and today we want
to go over the results and share with
you the winners and have a look at the
awesome games that were created so well
I guess I'm both interested us like
overflow is in security and the bottom
but I always wanted to be a game
developer but since I guess I cannot be
again developer right now because you
know security calls when I'm doing this
these game competitions so that's
basically this is I think about fifth
one or which I've made in the series and
it's actually getting better and better
ok so if people were writing actual but
I think I fixed it I think it was
because I had the camera audio in as
well as my microphone audio and at the
same time is it now fixed sorry my voice
is double yeah okay so it was my mistake
yes alright it's gonna be else voice
fine is that coming from work okay well
so this is the first time we do like
this dual screen setup so this is all
pretty janky and hope we don't have too
many issues beyond the snow okay so let
me quickly introduce the game challenge
what we like the rules and when did the
start and all the stuff around it and
you might already notice this weird Oh
they around us here because it has
something to do with the with the
challenge so I'm this chat here for a
second so at the end of December in 2018
of course we announced the gonna also
enter a game deaf challenge and so we
joined forces together and to you know
have people develop games as a challenge
and we were giving certain constraints
certain rules about what the games must
entail constraints are always very
interesting because constraints help to
drive creativity we are given clear
guidance to what technology should be
used to develop these games and also
certain you know game mechanics kind of
constraints I guess as well on top of
that and so lets us just quickly go over
the constraints because understanding
the constraints is important tool then
later be able to kind of see and judge
the games that were created based on
those constraints so the game must be an
unrealistic hacking simulator and the
setting was kind of like that you have
Space Marines exploring an abandoned
Space Station and you are in a hacker
that is helping out and add the help the
squad to do whatever that was like the
rough outline but you will see you know
people were taking this quite literally
other were more creative with that that
is just you know kind of like a rough
outline of everything that's I guess a
lot of games might look quite similar
because just of this this the story bit
and then we were telling people that the
technology they should use should be a
client-side web technology that runs
just like on a modern up-to-date Chrome
and this means of course that people can
develop games and HTML CSS JavaScript
web assembly and all that stuff and so
it was maybe you know we got a lot of
messages from people in their weakness
from their games that this was the first
time that they did a JavaScript I
haven't done JavaScript in a while or
haven't done but game development at all
so that's the perfect thing actually for
have having challenges like this
allow you to explore new technologies
and playing around the game should be in
1080p but there was a small twist to
this game and this was this overlay that
you were seeing at the beginning so you
can see it here it's an overlay that
gunwale commissioned and every game must
use this so the idea was to create this
illusion of having two screens in this
game and game developers had to come up
with plain game mechanics that make use
of having these two different screens
and so every game you will obviously
will have this overlay as you will see
and this created some you know
interesting game mechanics yeah people
didn't have a lot of time to develop
those games the deadline was end of
January and this blog post game went up
at the end of December so basically
there was only one month that you had
time but luckily the size of the game
was also limited so people couldn't go
too crazy
you only had 128 kilobytes that you
could use for the game so the size limit
of course also tells you already you
don't need to go too crazy I guess yeah
otherwise all the other things that are
listed here are mostly how to submit the
game and so there's not quite that
important for our follow showcasing now
but I guess nice to show you what is in
for the winners now because we were
joining forces we were able to up the
reward money
we both pitched in so the first place
will get $250 and you can see it here it
we have like we were able to have up to
the sixth spot an award and then we also
have a couple of honorary mentions that
we thought okay they didn't quite make
the top six but they were in a some way
special still and deserve some
additional reward and so we are giving
out a couple of these as well in our
plans now is that we go through the top
six in Reverse we start with the top
with a sixth place and then go up to the
first place to see the winner and after
we have crowned the winner we will then
talk a little bit about the honorable
mentions and showcase them as well maybe
a good well do you want to say something
about how the games were judged what
decided who would get you know first
spot so basically well the over will
overall quality of the game was what we
were looking for that's one thing and
the other thing which turned out was
super important was basically that we
really liked the game was it fun to play
super gameplay itself what was the main
stuff we didn't look at the code quality
at all so even if your code quality
wasn't great that's fine I mean versus
size limit so we obviously cannot use
style guys because you will run out of
space really really fast so that's kind
of given and I guess be server the main
criteria basically was it fun to play
the overall feeling did it help like was
not cool musical graphics and so on yeah
so I guess one you you see there's not
like a clear scoring chart how games
have to be performed and I personally
think that's also good in terms of
creativity because if people see I need
to fulfill these things to get certain
points to win that you know takes away
from the creative freedom and so we just
mainly wanted to have fun games games
are supposed to be fun and not fulfill
certain checklists so that was basically
very subjective for us of course but
yeah I think what gonna will agree with
me on when we actually sat together like
we ranked the games on our own and then
came together and I've talked about how
we want to do finalize the ranking and
we were actually surprisingly agreeing
very closely with how we rank them so I
think even if it's subjective I feel
like there are certain substance to it
just because both of us
a lot of similar use on them yeah
exactly and one thing to add is that the
games were really good there were a lot
of games submitted this round well a
couple of morvin last time we had what
25 games to go through right and
basically it was super hard to judge
them that's my opinion what do you think
right yeah it's it also kind of hurts to
rank them you know because you know that
every one of them you know sat down and
spend so much time on developing
something maybe even learn something new
in the process it was hard for them and
they spent a lot of hours and now you've
got a ranked and so that hurts but all
of them really deserve the attention and
and you have a look at them as well and
if you look here in the description of
the livestream as well as at the bottom
of the of the livestream you see a URL
that will go to this blog post and you
will find there a link to all the game
submissions the direct link for this is
this year wait sir
gee WGC 2018 win world of TV and when
you go there you will find all the
submissions you can download them and
sorry and play them yourself and you
totally should and the great thing of
course you know it's JavaScript their
source code available and you if if
you're curious how a certain game was
implemented or how it was done I
encourage you to of course also look in
the sources and you know learn from that
as well and get inspired maybe as well
do you have anything else to add or
should we head into the 6 spot no I
think I think we should get started yeah
otherwise they will it will already take
a while okay so mmm good we all see
setup so we will run now from the sixth
spot down to the first one and we are
gonna play the the we're gonna play the
footage of there was me playing certain
games in in the background and yeah
yeah okay so this was the six games that
no wait this I need to get my notes open
sorry sir
okay so this game was created by oh here
it starts we were just talking about the
difficult names this game is from gamer
nism and pig cow pig cow hybrid I guess
oh right right three game gamer nism pig
cow hybrid and ice death blade and the
game is called in it player one and as
you can see the setup here in this case
how they were using the game screen
setup that they had they were using the
top right as kind of tell the story
visually what is going on and on the
left side you had like a console where
you were giving instructions now this
was actually between us to a little bit
of a controversial ranking because oh no
no controversial but I really liked this
game a lot so I was arguing with well a
little bit here so what I particularly
liked a lot about this game was that it
was kind of like a multiple choice path
game you were the Space Marine and you
were able to you can see it here they're
always after each you know event or
enemy your head you had different
choices where you go next ABCD and I was
actually why this game was so much so
fun to me was that you know it made me
write down the different choices unlike
a piece of paper here you can like if it
like focusing I was like writing down
the different paths and thinking about
what is like the most efficient one and
this game had two stages so in the
beginning you were going these down
these different decisions so I guess I
can pause it so here for example I can
check the locations and it shows you
that you can
you know that there are three available
rooms and you can either fight against
an enemy or you can like explore certain
to different rooms and so it was just
fun to replay the game multiple times
and go down those different paths and
all of these rooms might give you
certain hints that will help you in the
second stage of the game now I did have
a special situation marked here as well
that I quickly skipped towards which was
kind of a little bit the frustrating
part the balancing was a little bit
difficult that it was a bit random those
attacks in terms of how much damage you
do and how much damage the enemy does
and so sometimes it could get quite
frustrating that you were so at like the
last and boss and you were just barely
making it I just tried to find like yeah
I hear so wait let me quickly remove
sorry like this so this in the bottom
right is my life reaction from when I
was playing this game and this happened
like after the acted dozens also play
through again I was crushed by the last
person and you see me then here going in
the console and being sick of it and
checking out the sources and and changed
my lifes again to be able to complete
this so this was a little bit of the
criticism I guess from my side to this
game but either way I had fun like with
the different choices and then in the
end I guess I can show you yeah so once
you completed that part you were going
in this other in the second part of the
game where you had this timer and now
you had to like a hacking part and you
can see here that you are connecting to
a certain IP and you had to specify
certain port and all of these things
were hints that you collected throughout
the different story steps before and so
that was like one event that gave you
the the port 1 3 3 7 I guess I mistyped
oh yeah I missed it
I pee here and then there was like an
annex or logic you could discover
programs along your way that would help
you yeah there was basically the the six
game do you want to add something to
that for everything you said right so
the one thing to note here is that when
you look at the older games right this
game probably wasn't the best individual
aspect neither was it an audio aspect I
actually have noted that it's beeped at
one time in the audio aspect but I also
noted but it was surprisingly fun to
play like even you know that the
graphics aren't amazing maybe I would
choose a different font maybe I would go
a little harder on the art style you
actually had 125 kilobytes you had a lot
of space to put in art so but on the
other hand if a game play it was fun it
I fully agree with you so I think it's a
war feel it's expresso congratulations
basically to to the creator's yeah cool
so yeah congratulations again game or
has its names
do you want to try to pronounce it okay
so let me try gamer Nissim picked a
hybrid and ice def great congratulations
for making in it player 1 and scoring
the sixth place and convinced we can be
a challenge yeah awesome
ok then let's move on to the fifth place
yeah so this place as you can see at the
top right there's like a console and in
this case this game the big screen is
like the main kind of game screen and at
the bottom of that screen you see four
Marines oh ok i'm not sure why i refresh
this game this was the first playthrough
of mine let's go for a bit ok so yes
sound you hear a lot of explosions at
least that inform moment but will mute
it in a second
yeah so as you can see you are
controlling this character at the top
and your Marines your friends or your
squad are at the bottom and they are
blocked at the door and you are you have
to now go to these terminals and if you
notice when you hit go there you can
press E and now the the terminal on the
top right updated and now you have to
quickly solve this in this case you had
to complete a calculation now this one's
my first playthrough I was very
distracted and you can see the
explosions are slowly coming in I turn
on the audio again really quick so this
explosion just killed one of our team
members and yeah so it was kind of like
a tank game where like slowly the
explosion was moving in and killing you
and you lose so what you had to do is
basically you had to quickly always run
up to these terminals hack them so I'm
here now doing this calculation I got
the correct answer the door opened and
now I need to move on to the next
section of this game now there are a
couple of things to say about first of
all the controls were very janky they
were kind of weird and awkward and
difficult to control sometimes your guy
was like drifting sometimes the
direction stuff was weird it was like
really awkward to control to be honest
with you in my imagination at some point
he I died touch the explosion in my
imaginations it was kind of like okay
you have Space Marine you are kind of in
weird kind of gravity situation and so
so that's kind of how I explain it but
there were this but once you got the
controls down you could kind of finally
kind of learn your way around these kind
of issues at some point this jumping
part actually became really cool and for
example I think in this section you see
it so this is another terminal and this
was then the
packing here was playing hangman let me
try to find okay so clearly he I didn't
succeed let's see okay
let's quickly watch this part here
because this is another story that's the
first okay
so hang okay so here you can see kind of
like a little bit of the okay so some
example here you need to backtrack now a
little bit and you need to chain these
two jumps together but you have to go to
the right and you can't jump to the
right because there's like a ceiling and
you get like blocked so actually there
was quite a bit of skill with the
jumping you had to like and it took me a
while to figure it out so let me rewrite
as well yeah but
there were quite some chump tricks
basically that you had to do to traverse
and that was actually you know so I
think was it here
let's see if I find it quickly yeah so
you had to like bounce there and then
time it correctly to bounce then to the
right and stuff so you can see this was
quite a skilled thing and even though
the controls are kind of janky it did
work out it was challenging and once you
got through that frustration part it was
really fun
the only suggestions I kind of had was
that the that the explosions were coming
in like as a straight wall and basically
once it reaches your Marines it would
kill us well because you often had to
backtrack a little bit so it would have
been kind of cooler if it was maybe like
a diagonal where it could kill your
Marines first but you still had the time
to like backtrack a little bit and jump
around yeah do you have anything to say
about this game yeah basically
I will be repeating this over and over
today I agree with you with what you
said the controls were broken at this
game and the way but it took me actually
awhile to figure out but I cannot hold
that jump up key I have to let it go
after pressing one so I can maneuver my
my hero route right after that I
actually admit I had to reverse engineer
again quite a lot to learn how the
hangman works because I tried to enter
the whole phrases but it turned out did
you you entered basically better than
the whole phrases after that I really I
got kind of like this vibe from out of
this world game or another world as it's
called and you were well this ver is
like your hero going upstairs and when
on the bottom of the screen you see some
other folks also waiting for you to let
them basically proceed to the next
location I really like that and I also
like looking from I guess perspective of
what kind of games folks made right this
was a quite unique game I think that it
was the only one scrolling jumping
platform game in there and forget other
games we had and it was pretty well made
at fat when it
stupid graphics the graphic outside was
pretty nice and I liked it but obviously
some things to improve but that's always
the case on campus you have only like on
game competitions right as you have only
a month to basically prepare everything
and you're working usually on your own
but still I think it's a pretty worthy
fifth place I had a lot of fun playing
with it after I finally if you go down
with the controls so yeah yeah perfect
all right congratulations oh yeah the
author of this game is called Aaron um
sorry and this game is called space
without eggs and sauce so check it out
you find it of course on this website
that is like linked at the bottom in the
description and you can play and try it
yourself then let's move on to the
fourth game and to the fourth place so
this game is by Kevin Fitch and the game
is called Conway has life you can
already see the intro sequence is kind
of playing you get a little bit of story
you get kind of the vibe and you can
like see here how your ship is
approaching at the station Conway so let
me skip maybe a bit forward yeah so you
are now like heading into the station
and then there were different puzzles
you were traversing from yeah you see
here like the animations there was like
a story and everything so there was like
a nice intro to the game let's see okay
and then it started yeah mmm okay there
were multiple doors that you had to go
through and then the the first doors
that were there were related to a
Conway's Game of Life and so these were
kind of like a little bit of challenges
the well basically you get like a
pattern and you need to get that pattern
right the execution of the idea was good
but the execution was a little bit
unfortunate in terms of like the
difficulty because in the first levels
you were just like basically copying the
patterns and then you realize it's like
an alternating thing in oh wait okay I'm
explaining this terribly let me try one
so at the top left of this level you see
like zero of five so this is a Kaname
game of life field and you enter you
know your population or whatever it's
called your cells and then you run the
game for five steps and the door only
opens if the final state of the game
after the five cycles or five generation
steps has what is shown here in this
phase of your screen and so now you need
to figure out what is kind of like the
starting generation that after five
generations will have exactly that
pattern and the first that was work was
so confusing because the first levels
were just like either alternating
patterns or stationary patterns that
wouldn't do anything you were just
putting in the same stuff again and then
later it was like an alternating pattern
and you had to put in the one and then
it ended in the other one and so the
idea was great but unfortunately didn't
like actually get to very difficult
puzzles they were quite easy that the
hardest one was I guess the odd was the
glider level I guess this shows it the
best let me pause here so on the error
screen of that glider level I'd pause
here in a second so it ran for 12
generations and you can see here the
access here the glider has to be after
12 steps of life and I think I remember
I think this was my first try ever and I
just thought okay it's probably like in
the corner you put the glider here it
runs for 12 things and I got it
so I would wish them there it was more
of a play on that aspect but what this
game made so exceptional was that this
wasn't the only minigame this was just a
start and after the Conway game of life
dog challenges you
had another minigame where you were
controlling by the way it's like turning
blue because I'm like double-clicking
and accidentally highlighting like the
browser screen or whatever you had this
kind of like this tank game where you
were shooting missiles and you had to
hit the the ball at the end and you can
see that the terrain is destructible and
so there were multiple levels like this
not particularly challenging just took
time to adjust and stuff like this but
it was like another mini game so yeah do
you know where the name of that mini
games come from like a gorilla bass
career ladder bass yeah no clue
Oh over there no I have no idea okay so
actually when you installed Microsoft
DOS back in the days right
it came with a basic interpreter with
cue basic interpreter and one of the
programs was called Gorillapod pass and
this minigame is basically almost the
perfect implementation of that game oh
that's beautiful
okay that's a nice touch that just adds
for me and on to it even more awesome
yeah so you know another implemented
minigame here that was fun
yeah and then there was another minigame
which was you know a regular what is it
called I don't even know does this have
a certain name is usually arkanoid okay
yeah you know another minigame also you
know not particularly hard or anything
but another minigame that's implemented
for to like hack the doors and get the
doors open basically and help your squad
to move through at the space station and
then there was after that there was a
third game and it is called Kirby space
program and for me personally that was
kind of like the main mind-blowing part
you were going through all these
different minigames and then this game
appeared which is just like solar system
kind of thing where different objects
are in a gravity field of the gravity
source in the middle they are just like
going on there in their orbit and you
have like a spaceship that is attracted
to that gravity field then you are also
in an orbit and you control this that
how many days are executed and certain
acceleration I guess and you could also
aim further in or further out and your
goal was it to basically collect or hit
these different objects in in the orbit
and you can see like how the gravity is
like you know going out there I just
collected one perfect and I thought this
is great like this could have almost
been like a game in itself just you know
the visuals and how I was executed that
just was like awesome
now that's one funny story I also
pointed out here a certain time hmm
maybe I find it so I had to play it
again and the reason for that was yeah I
hear I have my frustration again so I
was playing and I was kind of like
trying to get these two badly and it's
really difficult because you need to you
know think about where the orbits will
be at that moment and where your object
will be from the
gravity you know predicting a kind of
lining up your object you can see like I
was getting frustrated chasing these
trying to collect these objects and then
I got a bit too greedy and what happened
then
you see I'm already slinging around from
the gravity and then I was just like
slinging off and and now you see like
crap
my reaction here so I still saw like
dots
I knew that my ship was on the way was
able to come back again so it came back
it recovered but I was not able it was
aiming so perfectly into the middle with
its trajectory I guess and I try to get
you know get it in a nice orbit again
but it just gravity slingshot it
a way and I was I was like oh no this
did just happen and I try to you know
get the the the speed of the simulation
up again trying to see if it will
recover at some point again and I was
just like oh no and I had to play again
but you know there was just I screwed up
I did not predict the the gravity like
well enough I guess and so I had to
replay the game again and then I was a
bit more careful with my with the
traveling yeah what was your experience
with this go to the next level because
took me a while and I still didn't
collect all of them so yeah yeah I
played this for quite a long time and
you can tell I got really frustrated at
some point because of that but you know
multiple different minigames implemented
and having this one is felt like a gem
at the end like a really nice just like
unique you know like nobody implements
such a gravity I mean it's physics was
kind of like a I guess basic simulation
kind of thing but using it as a game
here trying to collect it was just a
nice surprise it was unique and
interesting and I had this fun
experience myself with like this
accidental gravity slingshot and I was I
screwed up my myself yeah yeah this game
like starts with a game of life right
and I basically get food you know
beginning starting levels and I felt
like yeah this is quite cute actually
right yeah game of fight that's a good
idea for a mini game in the game where
you're actually making an unrealistic
hacking story or a game of like a
classic right and then I like went to
you know the glider level I beat it and
I was swinging like okay bring the real
stuff and other was kind of disappointed
brother was the end of a game of five
levels but then we moved to a gorilla
which is like scourge tanks or worms
like again basically so I was like okay
well the person implemented the second
game which is not really super trivial
to make
it's easy but it's not super shallow so
I was like quite impressed and then I
moved to work and I never I was like wow
okay this is this is getting better and
better and if you have Mike with a kirby
space program you know basically like
obviously related to the Kerbal space
program I was like okay like this is
like the icing on the cake this is just
amazing so I really like it I think this
is a more fee for place really well done
I also liked vector animation basically
done I already mentioned to divert and
upperworld the game which also featured
back to animation I I kinda get this
vibe here as well so a really cool game
I really enjoyed it
Kevin bomb and has done a really good
good work on this yeah awesome
congratulations Kevin awesome okay then
let's move to the top three and the
place three so this was one of the games
which has we kind of got like similar
kind of games because of course we
wanted an unrealistic hacking simulator
so one of the obvious I guess things to
do is like you know a console kind of
interface you know terminal but this
game did it executed it very very well
so the setup was this way that you could
like put a chat like an IRC chat it
basically at the top right and that chat
was your company you are the hacker you
were communicating with the team that
was exploring station and so you were
having their the the as a form of
communication and on the left you
basically had your machine with like a
terminal and yeah and then basically was
kind of like a puzzle game an
exploration game that was like story
happening so you can tell you that here
in the story you see here they are
asking you are you there we decided to
dock into the station and check if there
are a live humans and then you had to
respond with you know in the chat
with ya and then the story was
continuing and they asked for something
they reached like I don't know were
blocked by something or yet to like open
the door or and then you needed to
figure this out and here I'm just typing
help and you can see like the different
commands available and it teaches you a
tool you get these objectives your
objective is to set the autopilot
autopilot to manual yeah and then you
were just like playing the game now
there were it's a nice story I don't
want to actually spoil it like too much
you should just experience you know
games like this I don't necessarily have
a lot of replayability because it's like
the story and you play the story and
then you that's like your experience so
and and you know it's fun to try to
figure out what you have to do and look
around and explore these systems but
yeah let me see if do you have anything
particular like a step that stands out
for you
I guess like one thing to point out here
is that the terminal was implemented
really in an amazing way right if there
are multiple submissions like almost
half of our submissions had a terminal
one way or the other
that's a pre key of this idea when
you're thinking about an unrealistic
hacking simulator right we usually like
as hackers like we like to use the
turbine also a term also it's a given
basically but you can give a terminal in
like a lazy way and you can do it this
way and I really liked the
implementation of the terminal here so
that's one thing if you ever think which
can't be really hooked up in the game
which we already mentioned is the chat
now but Chad was I mean it's it was I
think one of the three or four games
which again implemented the chat but
here the chat was like so immersive you
could actually like think but these are
like folks waiting for you and you
actually have to reply as life overflow
mentioned already and to them that was
really well executed really well done
also the hacking aspect of it I mean it
was supposed to be an unrealistic
hacking summarizer obviously so I I
wouldn't expect any buffer overflows and
and such but it was just fun to
basically you know connect to all the
various servers explore them then like
interact with them so it was overall a
really well executed game
I basically marked what Victor in play
for me was ten out of ten and my I guess
I don't know what I would say one thing
to offer to retsu who created this game
basically add some more content add some
music add some sound and put this on
Steam because this game is amazing well
that is an amazing compliment yeah yeah
I also have a small kind of oh wait let
me point out something first
what I also like this that it was kind
of like started to implement some
windows it didn't use them too much but
it did come in useful a little bit for
example it implemented here a binary
decoder and a network card which allows
you to switch now now finding how are
you where when I use this I guess here
I'm using the binary decoder so certain
files might have like binary inside and
you could like use that to decode and
there was a nice aspect because a lot of
games implemented you know a
command-line interface basically but
this was like going a bit closer to
simulate like an actual computer away
maybe you have graphical tools available
as well and one thing that kind of like
was a little bit irritating with some
other games they were for example
implementing like Caesar cipher or rot13
or something like this all you needed to
decode something and that usually meant
that you had to like Google and other
side now maybe that was the game's
intention that you could like go outside
and out of the game and you know explore
that and try to decode yourself but this
game just like directly offered you a
binary decode as like a program on this
computer that you could use to do that
which I really liked and then I have one
small funny story here in this one as
well I'm
moving hours again to see the reactions
so because it is so immersive for me it
felt like an actual console at some
point but there's one thing you
shouldn't do and which I often do in
console applications and that is the
it's it's like very common that I press
ctrl R to start searching for commands
in your history and at some point I kind
of was like tired to type something and
I thought oh maybe I can do ctrl R to
search for past commands and what
happened is that you know ctrl R is like
a hotkey in in the browser let's see I
hope I got the time here correct yeah so
here I press ctrl R try to search
and and I reef I was pretty far in the
game at this point basically and I just
refreshed and the the tap and I had to
restart here you can see the network
card program and you know how I guess
that is nice to see the start here yeah
it's like like semi press ctrl W in a
browser right you would expect just to
remove one word but you actually close
the tab understand your parents yeah but
yeah it was a really fun great game and
definitely deserves the third spot cool
yeah so oh yeah sorry I forget then the
author was red sue and the game was
called hacks or mm Congrats okay so then
let's move on to the second place this
game is from lidar loss and this game is
called space hacker 3000 so you can see
it kind of starts off like with like an
terminal interface but really nice
graphics already like at the top right
some nice just low pixel kind of graphic
animations it looks really nice it kind
of reminded me of Honor I forgot the
name papers please kind of style like
with the speaking or something yeah
let's wait a moment until like this game
is booting up and suddenly you know I
thought it's not a terminal game
suddenly it's booting like Windows and
had these animations how the how the
Marines they were just spawning in and
you see the lifeline of them and you had
suddenly this very beautiful game and
there were actually some quite
interesting game mechanics and so let's
just talk about them so this is my first
playthrough of the game I just like try
to figure out how this game works and
basically you always have these single
stages so now we go to the next one so
we find the door again and we can use
the door control program here and we
need to match
pattern but this was for example the
first time I realized oh wait the red
dot was in a different area of the door
and so now you had to in your mind you
know wrote rotate this thing as well so
now sandy yeah I was yeah and then
suddenly I reached the first enemy now
they are shooting and you have this time
pressure to make sure that your Marines
on a dime and I guess with the next
another shows one turrets they are
called turrets
then the other enemy are drones so there
are two drones and if you carefully look
at them they have like a blue and red
pattern on them now all three blue means
you control the drone and that first
wasn't sure what to do I try to like aim
shooting one guy at the other but that
didn't work so it took me a little bit
to figure out how to beat them but I
very quickly figure out they need to fly
into each other too you know this right
now that took so long that calf of the
space marines died
now these turrets have this blinking
light on their antennae and it always
restarts when it's black and it's just
showing you a pattern that you have to
enter you know with these colors and if
you do it correctly then you basically
like despawn or destroy or whatever
teleport away the turret I don't know
what happened and you see more doors and
your goal is a 2 and then you collect
always these like gems and coins and
like gems at the top right you see the
gem score and you call as I think it was
to get like a hundred gems but let's
wait here for a moment because this game
just took it takes a little twist in a
moment there was really another surprise
what made this game so great oh look who
appeared hey I see you are trying to
hack my space station wait a minute
defense protocol active all intruders
must die and I was like confused okay
wait Clippy okay what's happening
and suddenly clip he started to get red
eyes and she was lasers at my cursor
connectionless amazing
great yeah and so basically this
introduced like another aspect of this
game where you had like clip he like
shooting lasers at your cursor and it's
not like you get game over through that
but it's annoying because you have to
respawn when it happens and now in this
case you only have a door so it isn't
too bad but as soon as things are
shooting at you now you have like this
in in this time moment if you now get
shot
you lose obviously time where you're
Marines still take damage and obviously
you now hate to like click these
patterns and then what do is this not
only lasers this clip he plans like
bombs around or mines around the screen
now you need to like navigate with your
mouse around and you need to be just
careful with that and you know no it's
just like a little bit of sound effects
as well it's really worth mentioning but
the game was really well balanced I mean
it was hard especially when khalipa
shows up and start like planting mines
all around and shooting lasers left
right and center right but it's still
beatable it was like somebody actually
took time for off or actually took time
to make sure the game is on the level of
being hard but still beautiful so I
really appreciate that as well yeah you
need to pay a lot of things attention
you know you need to make sure you don't
get hit back Clippy and now this is for
example a stressful situation I was
looking to the right because I saw that
there are these spots shooting at me and
I completely missed Clippy and Clippy
attack Mac helped my cursor and I'd lose
lost more time getting my Marines
attacked and now I need to like control
these and try to you know evade the
mines at the same time now there's one
more clip II animation yeah and was just
running into a mine again you know they
are even a turret and drones are
shooting at me and I need to wait again
and you can see I'm slowly like dying
here
only one marine left
yeah so that's just c-clip he does his
other thing in a moment shooting lasers
again yeah it's just fast forward a
little bit here oh yeah okay so at some
point suddenly I was like doing another
door suddenly Clippy transforms into
this saw blade and it's just chasing you
as well and there was another like what
just happened yeah as you can tell great
graphics very well balanced a lot of
stuff you need to pay attention to using
both screens there was information on
one screen that you had to the useless
information on the other screen there
were threats on both screens you needed
to deal with on the Marines needed to
quickly dealt with that they don't get
shot and at the same time you need to
pay attention that your cursor doesn't
get killed by Clippy it was like a fun
thing to have like this old windows
style computer interface for the hacking
aspect basically yeah it was just that
was a mind-blowing game for me great
like really well done and like it was
really close to being the first place we
we had quite a long this quite a long
discussion basically to how to sort out
the first three games and but I mean
this game is amazing in its own right so
while all those amazing job well done
yeah definitely and again you know with
the link at the no I think oh I hate it
with that link at the bottom of the
screen you find the block and then you
find the link to all the games as well
as there and you can you definitely show
the experience and play and try it
yourself it's actually really fun okay
that means we are moving on to the first
place is there anything special I should
introduce it with I just drop in the
video and we start going
I guess let's drop in my video okay
there you go so this game is called
Sigma 18 by Christoph yeah I'm not sure
if you hear the audio the audio is
playing right now so this is the start
of the game II what is the status during
landing we cannot use it to get out from
here anymore
we are at Sigma 18 Space Station there
seems to be not a soul in the whole
location
okay so this was the start of the game
right you're opening it up and this
story between you the hacker and the
commander of your space marine squad is
kind of starting to unfold and this game
is starting up with the map at the top
right and they are speaking with each
other and that was like an amazing
creative use of the technologies that
the browser offers like that was just
really really clever and just needs to
be pointed out in general that this was
such a great idea it made this game
really really immersive you really felt
like there are two teams jetting over
the radio there were certain sound
effects you know for the radio exchange
basically and they were using the
text-to-speech API from Chrome so what
you could use for accessibility reasons
or you know this feature for
text-to-speech was used here to
implement this communication between the
squat on the spaceship and ud hacker
that was just that you know immediately
really mind-blowing and you can see you
know the animations like the flickering
of the map as well that just adds a nice
touch it is another like terminal
hacking game which was which was you
know a very common I guess trope but you
saw the flicker again they're just like
ads you know to the atmosphere of
playing this game but you can also tell
that the interface was done really
nicely and you see like the the the
green on black standard thing was just
executed very well yeah what do you do
you want to say something what yeah
basically what I really loved about this
game is the story it's basically like
every space thriller where you well
you're actually helping folks which are
stuck on the space station and they're
exploring it and it turns out that were
like some well I'm not going to spoil
too much but there are some enemies
which are kinda hostile towards you
there is black out on part of a space
station and you need to deal with it in
a smart way you have to control the
power system you have to control some
other stuff you have to basically ever
us also animation when entering a room
and like suddenly enemies just start
shooting at you and you have to quickly
help your Marines by closing the doors
and then after some playing you have to
figure out how to deal with enemies
because they were like it was quite a
lot of them so this game was really well
executed
that terminal was maybe not colorful
like it was on the third place it's
right but it was amazingly executed I
really enjoyed the fake green on black
classical combination here bucket but
again really well executed the minimap
on the right that was incredibly well
done for animations easy simple but
still added to the gameplay yeah even at
the end like we're out show itself was
this radar animation but was really cool
so I enjoyed it quite a lot playing this
game and again as like a little said
like that text-to-speech and it was the
first game I saw it in but still it was
it was a really good choice to use it
here it added to the immersion quite a
lot so really well done and extra stuff
it was like Sigma 18 is one of my my
favorite game basically of this
competition so well done work great yeah
yeah I can only agree it was really fun
exploring that a Space Station getting
hearing the story about it and reading
all the different things they will like
and I said a lot of different aspects
with the power those enemies some
management the power management I play
as well there were I tried to forget
even with the shooting there was like
another twist some some point later in
the game as well
I'm just fast-forwarding here so you can
kind of like see visually the map kind
of expanding but yet yeah it was very
well done you can it became was quite
long as I'm not so but this is another
game like yeah just add some more
content
put it on Steam for a backhoe to write
capital warrant it's totally worth
playing yeah for sure yeah and yeah you
know you said it kind of as an engine
and build more kind of games like those
it's great maybe also also the hacking
parts like the the the challenges
themself there was one in particular
with like authentication where you and
am i spoiling not too much but it was
not just you know connected
machine get this file or execute this
program exploit there were like a little
bit of thinking you were like using one
tool to to defeat like the
authentication of something else and it
was all just like very good ideas a lot
of different small ideas that just like
added to overall really great fun
experience and yeah
you should also I play it it's called
Sigma 18 by Christoph yum rush yeah so
congratulations Congrats
so you find the games on GE WGC 2018
grandmother to you and you should play
them and you'll find them all here
however now these were our top six I
guess maybe a quick recap I didn't
prepare like a screen for that no okay
like yeah on Play six is in it player
one by gamer is impecca hybrid a nice
death plate on place five is space
without x by r NM on place for is convoy
has life ccc by Karen Fitch on place 3
we have hacks or 2000 by retsu on place
to we have space hacker 3000 by Li loss
and on the first spot we have Sigma 18
by christophe cameras and of course
check out all the games now these were
their positions as you can just as a
quick reminder we had certain awards for
them as well and you know we will do
with we will reach out to them of course
now beyond the top 6 we have a couple of
Honor
honorary reward awards that we want to
give our to certain games I didn't
might make the top six but that we
wanted to just like you know honor as
well as you can sell we didn't like
specify how many that would be that
would just be you know if we felt like
we wanted to really award something just
for an exceptional another exceptional
game we would just wanted to keep that
open as a possibility and so we have
four honorable mentions that we would
want to go over next do you want to do
you have anything to say about before we
head there perfect perfect okay
so honorable mention number one is
called
nulls space by now we have the weird
names of junk attic or something like
that yeah so what's to say about this
game this is another skip a little bit
into the game so you had another like
console game like a console to the left
and at the top right you also have game
a map interface or like where the story
is playing out in some way similar to
the first place but you can tell you
know the first place did execute it a
little bit nicer but you know this game
made some things very well and that's
why we wanted to have it as an honorable
mention as well do you want to say
something about the graphics part so
basically the graphic graphics part was
a cool idea but it wasn't executed as
well as the first place was right
because in the first place I guess it
was a little more readable and here I
guess you can you can polish it a little
bit more and this is what I was missing
at this game the idea to have a vector
animations well vector slash bitmap
animations of the Marines moving and
like interacting with the environment
which was pretty cool but
effort is so much more you could have
done here but this isn't the only thing
which actually separates it from the top
games and our toys you ever think I
wanted to point out was some minigames
were really fun and we ever games were
so fun but at least my impression i
enjoyed by Sudoku and most of the
world's typing I did but then like
awesome in the game about adding two
numbers together really fast and the
numbers were in Trivial Oh
there weren't hard iver but if you have
these many numbers just crawling through
screen doors but you have to actually
get right and but was more I guess
annoying I guess is the word when fun so
yep like small stuff like this is
basically what separated it yeah yeah
for example here you see one of these on
one of the typical most used mini games
here where you had to quickly type in
the words falling down and if you don't
do it fast enough you get basically you
know only you have basically health and
with each one you're losing a bit and
then you lose at some point and I don't
know I I'm obviously not the fastest
typer but I wouldn't say I'm the slowest
one but I had basically no chance to
finish these things like I was way too
slow a small mistake and you are out of
it and I failed basically almost all of
them so that was really frustrating and
so in the end I outside to resort to
like now you can see one of the
animations like up there right now so
just to point that out here here
switches to like another screen where
they are walking in you know I think the
font choice for example was not the best
one I don't I know like small things
that just visually could have been
better but the animations and historian
itself is great and so it has a had like
a lot of nice things implemented and
that I we felt like deserves an
honorable mention yeah cool then let's
move to the second honorable mention
called grand hackster by
Tio's magis cisna marches yeah yeah this
is yeah you know one of fun polish names
it was Moshe - yeah so this game is
called grant excellently skip forward -
okay so there were like I think two
games where hacking was basically like
kind of like over the top like done in
the movies we just had to smash the
keyboard and you the goal was just to
like smash it like crazy I think here I
was still like trying to figure out what
am I supposed to do so I was just like
hitting Ridley but further into the game
so at the top right you see a labyrinth
or maze where you control one block here
and you are traversing through that maze
and you can collect certain things and
your goal is it to find a certain item
and bring it back now what blocks you
from doing that is that there are doors
that you need to hack at that with the
hacking this is where the smashing comes
into play now you can see on this
keyboard to the left that if you go back
a moment you see that there are controls
as well on the keyboard so you were
controlling two things you were
controlling the block or your squat or
whatever that is traversing through the
maze on the on the screen above but you
were also controlling the the squares
this three by three grid above the above
the keyboard and so you were smashing on
the keyboard and at the same time by
pressing I think it was shift you were
then able to go into the control mode
where you could move these things and
just created a kind of interesting
minigame so I'm here now at a blocked
door you can see the top of the map and
they are now these three fields with
lock icon and you can see that I like
that you can move this green cursor
around and basically you need to move
the screen cursor to these
Fields with the lock icon and in during
that time you are just smashing the
keyboard until all of the three ones
turn green and if you we if you leave
that slowly those grits turn red again
over time so they need to have over a
certain level of green that they stay
green otherwise they become red again so
here I'm smashing again it turns green
and I move on to the next one smash
again turns green
but if you are too slow and it's like
quite difficult or it took a bit to get
like down the the controls until you are
very fast with that yeah once you
complete that you the door opens and you
can traverse further to the maze one
other twist was here that you can tell
that in the keyboard certain characters
are red and others are blue so if you
are smashing certain Keys too often they
kind of like overheat and break or
something like this you can tell like
that it like it's filling up these dots
at the bottom right corner of the keys
and if they fill up too much they break
and this was an aspect of the game I
realized later so you need to a bit
strategize which keys you are smashing
because if you smash them too much you
destroy them and at some point you don't
have like any keys left anymore so if I
like fall board I get this stage of the
game I only had a few buttons left and
it was basically impossible to not break
them at this point and I had to like
carefully plan which button I'm smashing
and not the graphics were great I think
the mini game wasn't a fun idea like the
Smashing and yeah so that's why it for
me it deserved an honorable mention
what was your experience with it I mean
the graphics and the art style here is
quite amazing if you could scroll back
to the intro for example but was done
procedurally without any like you know
pre-rendered animation so that was quite
amazing as well and what basically made
me not put this game as one of the top
games is that in the end I did
have as much fun playing it I mean it's
great visually it's like top-notch
visually Tori but keyboard mashing girls
like only so far right yeah you could
obviously explore the labyrinth but and
if you does a game about machine
keyboard so this is basically the one
differentiate or which basically puts
this and honorable mentions and not on
the one as one of the top games for me
yeah yeah cool
so that was grand pacster then let's
move on to the third honorable mention
low this one is called locust
infestation by drug here and here I turn
on the sound really quick again for a
bit
and I just let it play here for a moment
just so you can get a feeling for it so
the game was there wasn't it was more
like it's a minigame it was like one
aspect of a game and was fun to play was
kind of like interesting at first and it
was I think you know visually it was
nice and it had some nice music and the
game idea I think was kind of
interesting so basically at the top
right you see these two signals running
one signal you had to match the red one
and you control the green one and you
control the amplitude the frequency and
what's the other one offset or like I
guess
yeah offset or something like that and
you had to match that exactly and the
stuff basically the story was that there
were doors that were blocking your squat
that is fighting aliens in on the other
screen and to be able to hack open the
door you needed to like hack the radio
connection of the door basically or
something and so you needed to match
that quickly so that your squad will not
be killed by the aliens now we both had
big issues with this game and there was
just because of the controls that was a
bit frustrating so you see these sliders
below the signal view and with those who
control the frequency and amplitude and
stuff like this now I realized I can
touch this with the mouse and control
them but good well for example didn't
realize that but the intended way to
play this was that you use num keys and
my keyboard doesn't have num keys
I don't own a keyboard with num keys
none he is like I have a couple of kills
but none have a num key my laptops don't
have num keys so I couldn't really play
the game and what I then used is I used
like a stream deck you know like what
the stream was use where you can like
crap I can't get a tire sorry where you
can like control
we can program certain keys and so I was
programming a numpad on here so I could
like play the game with that and good
well how did you solve this issue yeah I
have I have a key part basically in my
keyboard I have a really large keyboard
with basically a full keyboard pass some
additional keys which I can program
anyway but that didn't really solve ish
I just couldn't play this game with the
default keyboard setting with like you
know the default control scheme I
basically after trying like five times
and failing miserably at the game
because I was confusing vaccaei the key
is basically I felt like it would be
natural for me for these keys to like
control this aspect like for example my
face or the offset how it's actually
caught in the game in this program play
dude and so on but it just didn't work
for me so it via Thai I went to the
source code I changed the keyboard
scheme to the control scheme to
basically the one of my liking and after
setting that like first time I played it
I passed the game so I I'm not sure what
they offer actually was thinking about
when choosing the key by default key
bindings but I would go a different way
now I guess one thing to mention here
you imagine part of a music the music
right
I believe this is one of the games which
had music which is like a lot more than
you can say about most of the games most
of the games didn't come with any music
there was a couple of like some nice
ambient tunes but most of the games just
didn't have any music at all now I
wouldn't necessarily go in the same
direction with music here because the
music was kinda anti like the atmosphere
of the music was basically totally
different from you know exploring with
Space Station the music more like went
out to more into the classical piano
tones but everything better than
anything else in my opinion nonetheless
really well-executed game and I totally
see yeah it was just a unique it was
different it was more relaxing kind of
game I guess in that sense
and yeah but that's why we wanted to
leave it as an honorable mention as well
and now we come to the last honorable
mention in the last game that we will
showcase today and this one is called
space saver by Thomas Latos it was yeah
as you can already tell there was a
story going on there were like amazing
graphic animations and it's just wait a
moment until like the game kind of
starts off I think it's good yeah so
basically you're actually exploring a
Space Station here you are controlling
this yellow marine and you are walking
around and you have your squat there
with you and you are basically
collecting these these reports there and
there were yeah some small like
minigames that you had to also solve
throughout the the Space Station
exploration yeah it basically had its
own graphic style I guess I don't know
how much we want to say about like the
story or the details of the reports I
think we can skip the spoilers yes yeah
but you were particularly liking this
one right do you want to say something
about that
yeah basically what I liked about is I
liked the story and I liked that didn't
end after the like first five minutes
you could play a little longer than that
there was a couple of rooms to explore a
couple of minigames to basically well
practice hacking quite quite easy simple
minigames but still they were what
actually tipped the balance for me and I
know you liked it also was at the end of
the game when you collected all the
reports and he went back to your
spaceship you could actually read the
reports and that was really cool yeah so
there was a nice story and and that is
just you know it that that is gameplay
that is that
just to the game design that you
collected all these reports and you
didn't quite know what these reports are
about and you you hear some about the
story of the space station and then the
game is over and then you after the game
screen you just get a screen where you
can just like go through the different
reports and read them what was basically
going on at the space station and that
was just I know there was just such a an
important game design decision that just
made a big difference and overall yeah
it's an exploration game and so that was
quite fun basically also chatting that
we are kind of missing the threat here
you know Oh like most of the other games
have an element fat you you either were
playing against the time because the
space station was supposed to like just
explode in a second right or there were
some hostile audience drones or robots
or whatever after you but here you just
like oh fully let's play a space station
yeah just let's walk around like a walk
in the park basically I was kind of
missing the aspect like a few aspects
here in this game yeah cool okay so that
that was it for the different games we
were obviously uh I guess can well also
will contact the winners and the
honorable mentions for their rewards
over we will do that take care of that
over the upcoming days or weeks or
whatever yeah I would like to mention
again you should make sure to play these
games as well and I encourage you to
check out the source code of them as
well look at how they were implemented
if you're curious how could somebody
implement such a game in the browser a
lot of them you know have nice source
code provided with them as well so you
know use them to learn a little bit and
enjoy the games as well do you have
anything else you want to say talk walk
no I guess it's like every sign under
what you just said like to play also the
game which we didn't feature because we
showed on it hang ten games bro 25 games
total and the games were actually pretty
cool all of them do you have any funny
stories about playing cover games
actually have one which I wanted to show
is that for one game I the game didn't
work as intended in all honesty so I
actually spent like 25 minutes the
bagging for game and finding that the
bags and fixing them so I can test it
and it was actually the even the back if
the games was quite fun in that case I
don't know if you have like if you've
done anything still dirty wonderful
games yeah there was a one game there
was also another kind of like terminal
hacking game but it also had like an
interesting twist that it had like
multiple monitors that you of terminals
that you had to control and you had to
solve like each single monitor and there
was a bug where when there was like
there were easy terminals and how the
terminals to basically shut down and you
could basically just solve an easy one
and then it initiated the shutdown
sequence as a timer and what you could
do while the time is running you switch
to one of the hard terminals and when
the timer ran out it shut down that hard
terminal instead so that was just like
kind of like a game breaking back to
make everything easy but that was
clearly you know replaced like the game
state of the terminal running right now
and the timer hitting the shutdown of
the current like game thing that was
running right now just like a small
little bug
I guess yeah we're getting the glitches
to close then yeah yeah most of the
games you can play in the browser I
guess maybe some require maybe more
different kind of setup to play you I'm
not sure
so actually you should be able to play
all the games which are featured on the
website which is all of them from a
Chrome browser it was basically a
requirement for the offer super games to
make the game playable on the Chrome
browser by newest Chrome on us Windows
10 they basically wanted to limit it to
one platform just you know to make it
easy and since we like I use Chrome so
that's why we decided for it an over ism
and so that's one thing the other think
if you want to run them on your own
computer you might need to start and
keeping server for some of them the
easiest way is to just install Python
and run Python - em simple HTTP server
and thus if you you have an HTTP server
running so yeah but apart from that
that's actually it they ever again
should work yeah cool yeah I only can
mention again you know this was a
collaboration again well it's convulse
game development challenge he has done
several of these in the past and I
believe is continuing to do so in the
future once in a while I was really
happy that he allowed me to join for
this one and participate and judge all
these games so if you are also so if you
want to participate in such a game
challenge in the future yourself as well
and want to use this as an opportunity
to you know learn some new technologies
and just participate in like you know
small community of game developers make
sure to follow him on YouTube as well as
I guess Twitter is a good way to end his
blog to get announced to get the
announcements for a new development game
deaf challenges and beyond that he
obviously is making great live streams
about various IT security topics in
English this is English Channel but also
on polish on his polish channel these
are quite excellent as well and you
should obviously also subscribe to him
yeah from my sight oh so thank you life
overflow for helping me I was actually
really happy when I life overflow came
to me and said hey I want to help you
because I was super happy to dump just
fat most of other like staff which is
the hardest judging the games on him to
basically be able to discuss it I it's
always a struggle to you know you get 25
amazing games and you have to stack rank
them so having another person to like
discuss this and help with also other
powers of organizing the competition but
was amazing so thank you very much like
overflow and obviously as I would like
to thank every participant and everyone
who tried to make the game even if they
didn't
in the end because yeah it's like it's
pretty fun and it's a great learning
opportunity I think and most other games
which you sent in were quite amazing we
had a lot of fantastic so thank you and
I guess the next competition will be
around summer sounds good yeah also for
me thank you so much I did I really
enjoyed every single game it was a blast
to play them and the most painful part
was trying to rank them and you know
having to exclude showcasing certain
certain games it was really a lot of
work I really try to give every game you
know the the time it deserves that meant
for some games playing them for hours
because they were that hard of
frustrating or just that long you know
but yeah I enjoyed every single one of
them and I appreciate that you put the
time in developing them and sending them
in I guess yeah maybe also I feel sorry
for that one team that kind of had a
little bit of internal struggle I felt
kind of bad for them having put so much
time into this and then was another
agreement if you are there listening I'm
so happy that you hopefully you can
still besides those issues draw some
positive from it that you had fun
developing itself and sorry that you
couldn't hand it in in the end yeah yeah
cool so yeah that's it I will close the
screen down if there's nothing else to
talk about and otherwise you know stay
tuned for I guess the summer for the
next game deaf challenge and until then
maybe go through the games you saw so
here yeah thanks so much see you another
time and thanks for hanging out with us
bye thank you
