hey welcome to another video where I
just ramble a little bit about the state
of the channel and where I give some
background information and just
generally what's going on the channel is
doing pretty well
I got currently about 4500 subscribers
and it grows with about 150 new
subscribers weekly and I'm at roughly
120,000 views and I get roughly 5000
weekly more views which is pretty
awesome and that's mostly thanks to
people sharing it because otherwise it
wouldn't be discovered also the feedback
has been very amazing so far I get a lot
of positive comments they are very
encouraging I really love reading the
notifications that I get them and they
are huge motivational boost for spending
so much time on something that doesn't
provide me any income also a lot of
people write me in private right knee
emails or right knee reddit messages and
ask me questions and I really try hard
to answer all of those so again if you
are stuck with a certain problem if you
have some issues or you just want to
have an opinion about something just
write me I really love to to respond to
these kind of messages in a couple of
weeks or days the risk you are hardwood
embedded hardware CTF challenge will be
starting which I'm really looking
forward to for a long time now you can
still register until 1st of November on
their website by solving a very easy
binary reversing challenge sent them the
key and the flag and then possibly if
they have still units left you will be
able to participate in the CTF and then
they will send you a little arduino nano
board with how i understand its
preloaded with a bootloader that has I
think individual cryptographic keys on
them and then as far as I understand if
I understand the chart correctly they
will send out all challenges that you
can then that are encrypted with your
key and they are put on the Nano and
then you can interact with the board and
try to solve these different challenges
but anyway in any way I'm really looking
forward to this my hardware resources
that I have for analysis and stuff
not that much like I have a soldering
iron I have some Arduino boards and I
have a logic analyzer and a multimeter
but that's about it I'm still really
thinking about buying a chip Whisperer
because there will definitely some
side-channel attacks happening I've know
what search analytics are I know the
theory about it I've never done it
myself directly and I know that the chip
whisperer system is used also at my
university by some teams so I think that
would be a cool platform also I don't
have a proper oscilloscope which would
probably also be very helpful in
identifying signals and all this kind of
stuff so I contacted keysight and regal
and asked them if they would be up for a
little bit of sponsoring they'd give me
an oscilloscope I show it in the videos
I use it in the videos but so far I
didn't get any response so let's see
what this is going either wise it will
probably just buy one because I really
want one anyway so before I started my
youtube channel I was looking for other
proper hacking channels on YouTube and
obviously you find the big ones like
heck 5 and you find a lot of crap videos
that how to hack Instagram and they are
just super bad but since I have this
live overflow account and I only
subscribe to other neat channels that I
discover suddenly YouTube algorithm
recommends more and more of these really
good channels and so I start to discover
so many cool new YouTube channels that
are actually doing very awesome work and
they are technical and they are not the
kind of hacking videos that you
usually find so let me recommend two of
them to you that I recently discovered
one is mica Elizabeth Scott she does
amazing videos they are well edited they
are super entertaining and they contain
so much knowledge it's a blast to watch
it and you learn so much from it she
mainly covers harder reversing analyzing
hardware and all these kind of topics
and I just get so much from it and it's
such an enjoyment and they are so high
quality so you should check it out she's
definitely deserved more subscribers and
all she has a patreon go and support her
because it's just pretty cool
another cool channel that I have to
scout because he made a video about my
old CTF that I did he solved the
challenges and records himself with it
and it's set for on the cyberspace camp
channel and he just recently put out a
series of short videos talking about
different anti debugging techniques for
Windows and those are pretty cool so
it's just pretty short concise videos
talking about all those different
techniques you can do and he knows a lot
and he has other CTF recordings so that
is also just a very solid channel with a
lot of information there and I'm just
happy that I discovered the channel like
this and also definitely serves more
people watching it so that's it for now
things are going great I have a great
time I'm very stressed out a lot of
things are going on right now but I'm
having a great time and I hope you're
having too so hopefully see you in the
next video
you
