hey I just wanted to make a quick video
to remind you of a hardware CTF that
will be starting soon just quickly want
to introduce what this Hardware CTF is
what it is about and then I will tell
you about the details for how the
registration process works and basically
you just have to keep the deadline the
28th of August in mind for the
qualification phase so risk U is a
hardware security company so they offer
products and services to do Hardware
attacks for example extracting
cryptographic keys from chips and so you
can like consult them for your own
design for example if it's secure and
they made already two Hardware
capture-the-flag competitions before and
this is now the third installment and
currently the registration is still open
that's why I'm making this video to
encourage you to register and
participate so what is the CTF about
let's have a look at last round
where participated in till you get an
idea what the CTF is and what other
requirements for it so if you go to the
playlist tab and YouTube there is a
playlist called risk your Hardware CTF
or you also find it on my website up
here under CTF says the risk embedded
hardware CTF and I made up quite a lot
of write-ups of the hardware challenges
that I have solved and it all started
with them having sent you an Arduino
Nano board it was like a nano clone from
China but it had a custom bootloader on
it which encrypts the challenges and you
would then login and you would select
the challenge you would load it onto the
board and then you solve it and they
were po Nobles where you had to find
buffer overflows for example but there
were other challenges as well where you
had just had to interact with the board
and you had to build program a custom
microcontroller to communicate with that
Arduino board or you had to do use an
oscilloscope or logic analyzers to you
know learn what what a certain
implementation wants to do and somehow
you have to find flags and so let's have
a quick look what what kind of
challenges were there so for example
obviously a very first step was to
establish a serial connection that's a
very calm
protocol to interact with the hardware
device and then I went on just like
solving some of the challenges for
example there was there were crypto
challenges and so we performed sha-1
length extension attack on in one of
these challenges or there was a
reversing challenge like a kind of like
a crack knee challenge where I had to
reverse engineer a lot of AVR and I
ended up scripting radare
to be able to solve this so if you see
there's a lot of crossover with regular
reverse engineering as well it's just a
different architecture in this case then
there were challenges where you didn't
have the binary but you just kind of
like blindly try to exploit something
you noticed weird behavior when you were
interacting over a serial console with
it and there were also challenges that
included real Hardware side channel
attacks so for example I actually had to
solder and modify the board in order to
take measurements with an attack ball
called called the chip whisperer which I
learned from University to perform a
power side channel analysis attack so
these are the kind of challenges and it
was a lot of fun and there's a great
community on IRC as well so in the third
installment now it's another theme of an
automotive challenge so they I suspect
we will see things like canvas or
similar things that would remind you of
automotive and the reason for that is
also that in this case risk u has teamed
up with Argos it's great that another
company teamed up here to organize this
so let's have a quick look at what now
the third round is about and what you
have to do to participate so the
registration opened a while ago and it
does closed on the 28th of August so
that is - and that's why I kind of rush
out this video without much editing and
just do a rough voice over here there
are three challenges and you have to
find one two or three of these flags and
some magnetman and if you submitted them
until the
Deadline and you belong to the top 500
participants then you they will send you
a custom or that they design for this
CTF you simply go to Twitter because
they posted here a prototype so this
kind of what the board will probably
look like and we might want to analyze
this already a bit what kind of
controllers are on here I haven't looked
at it yet but I guess that's it mega and
that's definitely the this USB to serial
converter but what these here are I
don't know so we will we will figure
that out and then again pins and yeah so
this will be fun and so is it still
realistic that you could be one of these
500 participants so let's look at the
scoreboard right now and there are a lot
of people registered so it works right
now is that you sign up as an individual
person and you do these channels but
later you can form teams of multiple
people and so if you can see like all
three challenges were solved currently
by 109 people and then you see that up
until the 180th point there were too
soft and then there are a bunch of
people that only saw one challenge and
we are at 275 so it's very very likely
that when you when you are only able to
solve one challenge that you can still
qualify for this because there's quite a
lot of space so until the 500th place so
let's have a quick look at the
challenges they are currently three
qualifying challenges available each
gets one point and that's the white box
unboxing the tracing the traces and
exploitation as you can see I've
currently only solved two of the three
challenges so which one would I
recommend you to tackle if you are
interested in participating I would
suggest you go with exploitation at
least this one was a much easier one
than white box for me and with and with
a lot of my videos on my channel if you
kind of are familiar with the basics of
exploitation that that you can find in
CTF write-ups on my channel you will
have a fairly easy time with this one so
there was a quite very comfortable
challenge
white boxing on the other hand does
require some crypto knowledge but a lot
of the people who solved it used tools
that other people have implemented and
don't really quite understand how it
worked and I have to admit that I'm one
of them
after many days of frustrated and almost
raged quitting and getting burned out
from this challenge I decided to screw
it in tracing tracer I haven't looked at
yet I have no clue but but it's about a
project you have to analyze there's a
deadline for the CTF on the 20th of
August the first 500 participants get a
free board if you look in the challenges
they are doable they take a bit of time
and you have to should get on it if you
still want to solve it but if you manage
to solve at least one it's very likely
that you still belong to one of the 500
people who can get a board and then you
can see like I said a little bit of
hardware is required a lot of time is
required to participate but it's a lot
of fun and if you have an interest and
maybe a little bit of basic knowledge
with Arduinos and programming other
innos and how how to make an LED blink
and stuff like this then I think you
might be able to have some fun here and
learn something anyway thank you very
much well that's it I hope I will see
you at the CTF I will be on the IRC a
lot of the times as well I'm looking
forward to chat with people and to learn
a lot of new things and thanks for risk
you for organizing another round of this
amazing CTF I really hope it's a success
for them again so that they will do this
more in the future
[Music]
you
[Music]
