I want to quickly address the question
if you should use Windows Linux or Mac
and I guess also answer the question
what I'm using huh you use Windows have
you ever used arch I'm a social
influencer and I edit photos for my
Instagram real hackers use Kali Linux if
you follow my videos you will know that
I use Mac I use Linux and I use Windows
I absolutely understand the criticism
about Apple I understand the value of
open source and the idea behind Linux
and the usefulness of it and I grew up
with Windows and I like to play games
that are only running on there but
personally I'm not really emotionally
invested in any of the operating systems
I see them as any hardware and software
just as a tool something that I can use
to do my work it's always a combination
of a couple of things it's mostly what
is available to me right now and where
do I have like the most experience with
or what am I most comfortable with and I
guess this sometimes the stereotype that
people that use Windows can't be real
hackers or people that use Mac I'll just
like stupid instagramers but I don't
know just look at conferences and look
at the laptops that the people are using
to present your stuff you will find
Linux Mac and Windows and for example
Greenville is a obviously a very
experienced at heat security researcher
and as part of the very successful Drang
sector CTF team and he's mostly using
Windows I mean when necessary he will
also use Linux so he is here setting up
in Ubuntu VM but for the most part he is
using Windows as his main operating
system the stream here isn't polish but
I guess you only need to look at what
kind of tools he's installing if you're
curious and has setup it's pretty fancy
so go check that out it's on his polish
channel Greenville cold wind and think
about malware research most malware runs
on Windows so you need a good
understanding of Windows which you will
only get if you also use it and do your
research on it but in the end it's just
the tool you are using because that's
what you need and when you're interested
in iOS speed writing apps or even doing
some research and checking out jail
breaks then maybe you need a Mac a lot
of the work that I do requires me to
have run tools or writing my
on scripts and yes I really like
developing on Linux I have most of my
experience there a lot of that knowledge
is transferable to Mac and I can do that
on Mac as well but you see me a lot in
my videos using some kind of VM or just
renting we host a server somewhere in
the internet to get a Linux host for me
Linux is the best environment to write
applications for program run scripts and
so forth but a lot of the daily work
also is just like writing emails and
writing on slack writing reports or
documentation just browsing and
researching on the internet for these
kind of tasks I just like Mac a lot and
even though when I'm at home I have
these huge monitors and desktop stations
I love the trackpad on Mac seriously the
biggest reason why I like Mac's is
because of the trackpad the track that
is just so useful and for other people
this is just a stupid detail they don't
care about and then a Mac makes no sense
also yes it's absolutely overpriced and
way too expensive and the state of
repairs on Mac is absolutely terrible I
have nothing to counter that argument I
fully agree with you it doesn't change
that I like to click on it I guess the
main question that I get asked a lot is
what I would recommend to get started
with that he security is something
necessary and please don't look at all
the different devices that I have and
think that you need that this is curated
over many years and I like to invest
money into this because this is the
field I'm working in but when I started
I also had just a Windows PC and then at
some point I got a laptop and I
installed Ubuntu I believe was it on
there but if you have Windows you can
run a Linux VM or you can do a boot for
just a couple of dollars per month you
can also rent like very small Linux
machines somewhere online which is very
useful because then you also have a
public static IP basically I usually use
digitalocean
for no particular reason other than
that's kind of the service that I
discovered and used since I've never
like switched away from that affiliate
link in the description you know the
game but what I find fascinating is
there are even people participating in
kind of like this jailbreak iOS world I
mean they are not doing like the
jailbreak stuff but they are writing and
programming tweaks and I've seen people
do that
just on their phone they don't even have
the laptop they're using a text editor
on their phone for programming
absolutely insane and mind blowing a
raspberry pie is extremely cheap and it
can run Linux on it so it can run Python
and whatever you need it's not very
powerful but for basic programming basic
web application stuff it's completely
sufficient also I'm not gonna sit here
with my five devices and pretend that
it's not a privilege to have all these
different devices it makes a lot of
things easier you know I don't need to
worry about if a tool is not running I
can just try it out on any of the
machines I have that's definitely an
advantage and I guess a privilege of
money that I have but I would say it's
definitely wrong if you think you
absolutely need that to get started and
that it's like holding you hugely back I
do think it's an advantage it's a little
bit of a privilege is something that
gets you a bit forward but you know the
main part that you need is like the
motivation dedication to look into this
regardless limited environments are
where creativity is the highest when you
are being limited by your device you
will have to come up with weird ways to
get around your restrictions this
requires creativity and you will have a
much better understanding of the device
later like I said some of the kids are
not even held back by just having a
phone and then programming on there it's
not the best it's not ideal but you can
learn so much on it similar if you have
one laptop one PC you can run a VM in
there and yes VM is slower its sluggish
it doesn't feel native and yes it's a
privilege if you have a dedicated Linux
machine
surely that makes working on it a bit
nicer I'm not gonna pretend that this
doesn't have an impact on the learning
process but if you think you need that
that's completely wrong you can achieve
so much with just these machines also a
lot of people recommend Kali Linux if
you want to do IT security and I'm have
somewhat of a strong stance against Kali
not necessarily because I believe like
Kali is bad or huge reasons I just want
to be a counterweight against Carly a
little bit I personally don't use Kali
I'm Way too overwhelmed by all the tools
on there and I prefer to just have a
clean operating system and then install
what I need also I believe you should be
capable of doing that because you will
run into all these different setup
issues
programs like how do you compile a
program how do you make sure that
dependencies when they require different
versions are not interfering with each
other and all that kind of stuff you
know this is all useful experience to
gain and should I tell you a secret how
I got to using a Mac in the early times
when I kind of like got into IT security
and I saw various people that were
extremely skilled and I was really
looking up to them
I saw them using Mac's either like
working on them are using them for their
presentations if these amazing hackers
are using Mac's then it can't be bad
right I know this is a completely
idiotic influence but that's the truth
now I kind of like it so yeah to
summarize for me the operating system or
the kind of device it is it's just a
tool and I use whatever is useful to me
and I'm very well aware of the
criticisms and disadvantages or
advantages of the different devices and
what I do care about these things and
I'm glad that people fight for it
personally I have to say I'm a little
bit you know what motivates to just
learn technical stuff so I just want to
get my work done and so I'm just gonna
use a Mac but if I could cast a vote I
would definitely kick Apple in their ass
for the terrible repair ecosystem and if
you are curious about my Mac setup here
are the tools that I always install
first when I get a Mac item - as my
terminal emulator boom it's not really a
full window manager it's more like
arranging Windows nicely Little Snitch
is kind of like a host firewall in my
terminal then I'm using said SH with oh
my status age to make it look fancy
and then GPG suite has a good
integration for PGP in mail also in most
of my videos I'm using sublime as a text
editor but recently Visual Studio code
is growing on me
and I'm also increasingly using docker a
lot as an easy way to run Linux stuff on
my Mac I can't give you a lot of tips
for Windows because I mainly use Windows
for the video editing process streaming
and also playing games so I guess here's
the adobe creative suit that i'm using
and i guess recently i'm playing a lot
of apex legends I don't know how
important that was for you to know for
Linux my go-to choices are kind of like
Ubuntu just because it's an easy entry
but also sometimes Fedora
like I said I don't hold any religious
views when it comes to Linux it's just
happened to be the stuff that I've been
using
I would never claim that there's any
good reason for why I'm using it okay
don't don't try to argue with me because
I have no damn clue what I'm talking
about this is just what I'm used to it's
just the truth
I tried arch linux but I'm too stupid
and impatient for it and typically I
also use set SH and oh my said Sh on
Linux as well but please me telling you
what I'm using don't take this as kind
of the best recommendation okay I have
no damn clue this is like the stuff I
come across and that I've been using and
I'm sure there are better ways to do
things in some cases I'm actually very
aware what would be better to use but
I'm so used to my way of doing it that I
haven't found the time or motivation yet
to transition so please spare me all the
comments that other stuff is better I
don't care well I do care but like I
said I'm so used to this stuff how I do
it and so it's unlikely gonna change I'm
getting too old okay I'm getting closer
to 30 I don't like change anymore
[Music]
