I can tell you a secret as a place on
the Internet
most of the big names that you know of
they are all there and they are all
communicating there you can all interact
and you see also the interactions
between all these amazing researchers
it's like a secret place for only the
best of the best and this is also where
I learned a lot and today I'm telling
you how you can find this place
now you can navigate around what
interesting things you can find there
and I give you the permission to join
you can sign up yourself and then curate
the list of researchers that you're
interested in but don't tell anybody
[Music]
let's open Twitter discussion about
responsible disclosure I've been there
but might be interesting to you this is
a pretty fun Twitter account by a friend
of mine
the board is constantly scraping paste
bins I mean there are tons of tools and
people are doing it it's just happened
to be a friend of mine and so you can
see here links to paste bins that
contain some credentials entice a
youtube channel of another youtuber
advertised here it's ash
my stroke ego it's it's a channel about
malware reverse engineering check it out
if you always want to see our decompile
in action but we're afraid to ask you
can play with it now we offer a demo
decompiler 4 X 64 wait this is new the
demo version of IDA now comes with X 64
decompiler let's check this out ok so
I've already requested the evaluation
version and it does say here the demo
version of Ida comes with X 64
decompiler so here it is at 64 let's
execute that by the way there's a demo
for Windows Linux and Mac so that's
pretty neat just a small test binary
it's from from a format string
exploitation challenge so let's check
out the D compiler and 5 the D
compilation functionality is provided by
a decompiler plugin this plugin is not
part of Ida is a separate product the
decompile has limited functionality the
decompile is working holy crap it works
that's nice it's a it's a standard D
compiler
I mean it's just 64-bit binaries but
this is already really really helpful
for CTFs because I guess like the most
dinner like Ponyville binaries nowadays
are 64-bit I mean we know the reason why
I - doing this I didn't share a demo for
64-bit for a long time and now a
decompiler tool I think they are really
feeling the pressure that giedrius
putting on them just a quick reminder
deidre is completely free and also has a
pretty good decompiler well Ida is still
probably stronger in all places the fact
that it's free and pretty mature
it's definitely usable
it's really usable it's a tough
competitor for Ida especially long term
if now all the kids are coming up on
Ghidorah and all the tools that will be
developed in the next five to ten years
foggy dry if Deidre remains maintained
and and the community is forming around
this Deidre has the potential to surpass
Ida it's great to see competition in in
this market because now you also get an
idea a demo version with with decompiler
that's pretty cool it's another day no
and I realized I wasn't properly dressed
for the heck are underground forum that
we are exploring so let's head in again
looks like the discussion today about
responsible disclosure is continuing a
little bit here's the docket as weighing
in and marwah tech my gosh this blew up
ribs also trying some marketing here can
you spot the vulnerability let's have a
quick look at this okay if the password
is set if you have a post request with
the password then it will set the cookie
to the md5 hash of that passport oh and
we have a password to your hard coded
and I immediately noticed the 0e
followed by only numbers this is a
classic PHP issue this part here now
checks the cookies so if you don't have
a cookie set yet then it shows you the
login prompt but if the md5 hash
generated from your cookie input is
equal to the password then the lock in
look then the look in succeeds that's a
very typical PHP challenge issue kind of
thing that you should be aware of I
believe I have also shown this in a
video before life overflow here editing
this video I just realized a completely
forgot to explain what exactly the issue
is but I also dug up the video where I'm
explaining this it was in this other PHP
challenge so let me just play it really
quick PHP has type juggling which means
that variables type is determined by the
context in which the variable is used
and so for example these two different
strings evaluate to true because based
on the context they are automatically
converted to numbers and so those are
both 0 and what can happen now is that
if for some reason two different hash
strings start with 0
II followed by only numbers they would
evaluate to true this is a very typical
CTF PHP challenge so I thought maybe we
have here a similar issue because equal
equal and PHP means equal after type
juggling while equal equal equal means
identical and the type has to match too
there we go
educational YouTube channel but I also
forgot to mention that obviously people
were responding to that tweet with the
solutions so that's again another
example of what you can learn if you are
just browsing Twitter and coming across
something like this if you didn't know
about PHP type juggling you would have
found the explanation and the solution
in their responses
I guess just some weird interesting fun
facts 95% ATM swipes run google code-in
80% of transactions run on mainframe and
there are I don't know this kind of
number we write 220 billion lines of
code only in COBOL well that sounds
crazy but I'm sure a lot of the
financial stuff is running on mainframes
and COBOL that's like IBM stuff I guess
something like this is also always
interesting and fascinating it's about
power law the man who bought hacking
team and it's here new marketing
material of the company that is building
surveillance tools and sells this
product and service to agencies around
the world
stuff like this might always feel weird
but it's just reality ok so this kind of
stuff exists it would be naive to
believe that there wouldn't be implants
that you don't know about for various
operating systems and probably they have
exploits or other means of delivery for
all of them - yeah yeah the real world
sucks I guess so nighty you either know
something or you don't and everything
you know it seems trivial and easy and
you feel like everybody else should know
it so here for example is somebody who I
guess has never heard of Nicolo pinochle
before and I guess this person is
surprised that there's a feature to run
C and C++ code and browsers in some kind
of sandbox that might sound weird but
yeah stuff like this exists there was
also a CTF challenge at from the Google
CTF related to pinochle so maybe check
that out so the street is a good example
why sharing something you found out can
be useful other people might have also
not heard about this before and now you
learn it oh I also remember that hex
backswing is working on a curated list
of researchers or hackers to follow on
Twitter and she is categorizing them in
all the different categories they are
like kind of tweeting about or the area
they are working in it's unfortunately
currently not available but there's a
talk about it by her that you can find
on YouTube and you can see it being
split up in all the different categories
I talked to her unfortunately the
project right now is offline but she's
still working on it and she's very busy
right now but keep an eye out on her
Twitter she's hoping to release it in a
couple of months maybe so if you see
this video long time in the future maybe
search for 133 seven lists I'll check
out her Twitter and if you see this
video earlier and you can't find it then
just follow her on Twitter I'm sure she
will tweet about it once she got it to a
state to publish it I mean there's a lot
of crap on Twitter tool there are meme
jokes people talk about other stuff and
private stuff people talk about politics
I just want to say it all has a place
there it's a social place with humans
and I enjoy these social interactions as
well so please don't be one of those
sticks that goes on there and then
complaints about people I only followed
you for technical stuff stop talking
politics or [ __ ] like this like stop it
okay if you don't care and follow
silently you don't need to be a dick
about it I think it's nice that people
have a platform here to just share and
talk with each other stuff that is also
unrelated to IT security if you are
wondering how to start I guess I would
recommend just look at the people I
follow not all of them are just about IT
security but most of them are it might
be a good place if you have zero people
you follow and then over time you build
and curate your own list you just keep
reading Twitter you look at replies and
maybe you find interesting people that
have good responses and then you follow
them and then over time you slowly build
up a nice Twitter following with a lot
of relevant information that you care
about so like I said please keep
hacking forum secret Shh but I believe
it's one of the best places to interact
and stay up-to-date with IT security
[Music]
