do you know how a buffer overflow really
works have you ever wondered what goes
into these amazing memory corruption
exploits have you ever really try to
understand modern XSS attacks that abuse
JavaScript sandboxes the world of
security vulnerabilities is amazing
behind each exploit is a story of
creativity and incredible knowledge and
I want to help others appreciate this
form of art
[Music]
welcome to life overflow this is a
channel where we don't just use exploits
because it makes us look cool
transfer to tourism but we actually want
to understand how they work I want to
explain underlying concepts and ideas
about insecurity and not just show how
to use a tool this means I will
demonstrate technical stuff from
low-level hardware to high-level web
apps as well as talking about abstract
ideas such as weird machines and
language security I know how boring
introduction tutorials can be so I try
to do it differently the videos are
highly condensed and cover way more than
just the obvious on this channel you can
find a binary exploitation course that
introduces buffer overflows formats
during exploits heap corruptions
networking and much more there's also a
web security course and I also cover
real-life exploits where we actually dig
deep to understand how they work
no [ __ ] upper management summary I
also love to play security capture the
flag competitions where you have to
exploit challenges and collect Flags I
got hooked on security after
participating in a CTF organized by
stripe in 2012 so you will find several
video walkthroughs of challenges
covering many different kinds of topics
including pawning reverse engineering
crypto web and more I also like to play
around with some hardware though I still
have to learn more about that but why
don't you come with me on this journey
if you like what you see please
subscribe on YouTube to always get
notified of new videos if you want to
get started from the beginning check out
the playlists I've created for the
different series or you can use the
website life overflow comm to browse the
video courses in case the playlists are
a hassle I know my English is not
perfect so almost all of my videos have
subtitles available which should make it
easier to follow when I mumble thanks
for watching my introduction video I
hope I was able to convince you to give
it a try if you have feedback for me let
me know about it I always love to hear
from people watching my stuff there's a
subreddit where you can engage with
others from the community feel free to
post and discuss anything remotely
related just keep DPS and snake-oil
stuff out you can also follow me on
Twitter where I post new videos and
occasionally retweet cool stuff I hope
to see you as a subscriber
and heck the planet
hyped up again
[Music]
you
[Music]
