I like helping people that's also why I
have this YouTube channel I like to
share what I know I get a lot of
questions by Twitter email Instagram
whatever and I really try to answer as
many questions as I can but it's it's
impossible to answer all the questions I
there's just no time for it I also have
two separate life overflow where you can
ask questions and the great thing is
that not only I can answer about other
people as well if they see it so so
there's a great book thing if you have
been answering questions to other people
on there thank you so much thank you
[Music]
but I also want to thank people that
write really good questions one
important rule I have for the subreddit
is use expressive titles so here I
included two examples of like bad titles
that were just new here or new help
which doesn't contain any information
and so I gave here a constructive
example of what an alternative could
look like and there would be way better
so for example this first question here
is talking about some stuff and a better
title would have been should I learn C
or Python with small examples or should
I just read books that would have been a
way better title anyway so let's see
what kind of questions are here oh look
at this one so this is not directly a
question but at least the title gives a
good context it's about exploding buffer
overflows it's a Linux binary and also
this added details about statically
linked and stripped so I can assume that
the person asking this question here has
some issue will sell some trouble with
getting around that if you link toaster
binaries and look at this there's a
actual text it's not just like a
one-liner I like this I want people to
actually like explain what they have
been trying maybe you remember my video
how not to ask a technical question
where I was asking please please PLEASE
include everything you can and explain
everything you did because then it's
only possible to actually help you so
yeah this person kind of did this and
explained a little bit what the person
was doing and trying so I've been
practicing different types of buffer
overflows and can exploit simple ones on
Windows and Linux machines now however
I'm trying to teach myself reverse
engineering as well but I have hit a
roadblock I have an elf executable
64-bit statically linked and stripped
binary that has a buffer overflow
vulnerability and so far I've downloaded
the binary and ran the file comma to
find the previously stated information
then I try to execute it but I get a
bind address already in use error so I
then ran s trace and it looks like the
error message is hard-coded I can't run
L trace
so I ran read elf to find the entry
point of the program gdb has been
unsuccessful as well since there is no
symbol table and I also received a no
registers error
try and locate our IP or our VP I ran
strings as well and nothing is really
jumping out at me since I don't see any
buff or vulnerable codes such as string
copy
I've tried researching what to do next
and I believe I need to rebuild the
symbol table but I'm honestly lost and
would appreciate if anyone could push me
in the right direction my main goal
right now is just to understand the
binary and figure out how to crash it
what is this I make a whole video
explaining that if you do anything like
with debugging and it clear you're
exploiting it if you are copying pasting
all your output that I can actually
follow what you did and then I get stuff
like Iran s trace and it looks like the
error message is hard-coded whether is
that coming from
I don't know show me the esterase output
what are you seeing have you googled
what bind does and what address already
used means and then gdb is unsuccessful
of course from experience I know what no
symbol table means us but I also
received no register arrow and try to
locate our IP and our VP and that
doesn't make any sense
show me your goddamn gdb output ok then
what we things are so simple here's a
really good response this arrow means
something else is already bound to that
port you could have two instances of the
binary running or it's trying to bind to
a port you already have a service on
uses s - t LPN to get a list of
listening services and the respective
ports then find the process ID of the
process that's listening on the port it
needs to bind and then kill it and look
at that thank you
I was able to find the process and kill
it but now when I run nothing happens
additionally to the advice already given
regarding the connection to the port you
should use s trace again maybe you want
to use s trace - f to also follow
forking children because it could be may
be that the process is forking it's why
you didn't catch it because it happens
in a different process it is something
with networking so there should be like
a receiver or something like that
you ran asteroids - F but you don't see
any receive cost what does it be what do
you see instead so the person actually
sent me the binary and then I was also
able to have a quick look at it myself
when I use a binary next execute s trace
here I see the output there's the call
to bind then I use net kiddin sent a a
to that port and then I see
I received from so I can I don't know
why you don't see that what do you do
wrong I have no clue but it clearly is
there
my output stops at Exeter okay your
output stops at exit three come right
when you send but clearly you do
something wrong because if you would
actually send it there you should see
receive so something else is going wrong
again where the is the detailed
technical information I don't see
anything here where's your shell output
water what are you doing this is exactly
the reason why I want technical
output like this why the didn't you
provide this earlier because look at
this you call Python and you sent this
output to the challenge server to
Ponyville Praetorian 288 but you want to
debug your local binary obviously you
need to then connect to localhost
this is a typical mistake this can
easily happen this this probably
happened to me before too but people
can't help you if you don't share your
details is an easy mistake to spot
that's good why you ask and why other
people should look at this Morais can't
see more issues like this sometimes you
are blind with the basic stuff you don't
even recognize that something like this
is the issue so I'm happy to tell you
exactly what the is wrong here no
shame there but this could have been
solved easily maybe even in the initial
post if you had just posted all your
output and all the things and stuff you
did and stuff you do then it would have
been already clear so yeah this is a
perfect example why it is so important
that you take time with your question
and include all the technical
information as well
I'm the two-time cybersecurity challenge
Germany winner 2013 in 2014 send me a
command line output and not just your
whining oh it doesn't work it doesn't
work
show me what doesn't work what exactly
and that's it show me okay so this this
was obviously just character please
don't take my language too seriously
this was obviously just a little bit of
a joke and a character but I have to
admit it is kind of frustrating to get
these questions that's also why I made
that video on how to not ask a technical
question but I also know that there is
like a many to one relationship the the
problem for me is that I get a lot of
questions right I get to get so many
questions so seeing the same issues in
this same pattern of not providing
enough information is really really
frustrating and sometimes I can get a
little bit
a little bit angry you know I know I
shouldn't because for the person that is
asking it's just a single connection and
obviously if you have a one-on-one
interaction with somebody you are a lot
more chill obviously and so it can from
the perspective of the person asking it
can maybe look a little bit mean when
the person like me gets a bit frustrated
with the question because you know
there's no need to be frustrated so
anybody who has asked me questions and I
have gotten a bit frustrated I'm really
really sorry about that
typically I also say sorry about this
because I I know that I shouldn't be
frustrated and I hope you can empathize
with me that I get a lot of these
questions and just think the math gets
very frustrating because it's
time-consuming I don't have time to
address everything so it's it's taking
my time away there's also taking away
attention in time that I could give to
other people it's not just for me it's
it's it's it applies to any questions
you ask online like the subreddit life
overflow or Stack Overflow or wherever
you are asking so sorry cookie for this
a very strong language I hope you didn't
feel attacked by this that this was
really me just like acting a little bit
and obviously exaggerating the situation
and and I hope you don't mind that I use
you know as an example to kind of like
make a point because I would like to use
this kind of video to also then share
with people when they ask questions to
highlight again what I'm looking for
what the kind of information it is that
I would need also a small little detail
here so this challenge is part of like a
recruiting company challenge and the
person didn't mention this at the start
of the question which always makes me
feel a little bit like why are you not
straightforward with this what why are
you not saying what it's for because
then when I find out there is like a CTF
that is actively running right now or
it's even part of a challenge where you
can win money or words for a job it
always feels a little bit cheating so be
upfront with it I actually would love to
help you when it's like a job kind of
thing so so please be upfront with this
because there's also influences how to
react to these questions and be a bit
more guiding rather than telling you
might think that I would not
to help you when it's like a job
application kind of challenge but it's
actually the contrary is true and glad
that you find motivation to try out such
a challenge and you want to apply and I
would love to help you and teach you
based on that challenge and you're
applying for a job you are not in school
anymore okay
you don't necessarily need to sit there
alone you are googling and researching
all the time anyway that's part of the
job having a good Network and asking
other people for advice and help in your
job is also helpful skill so recognizing
where you need help and being able to
ask the correct questions and reaching
out to the right people that's part
that's a good skill I'm obviously not
solving it for you but I'm I'm happy if
I can help with your process there just
be honest with yourself in the end that
you didn't quite solve it yourself and
maybe in the interview process you can
even talk about this that it was tough
on you and you needed a lot of research
but a tough challenge doesn't stop you
right this shows dedication the shows
that you have the smartness to power
through that and be able to learn maybe
the job is for an experienced senior
position and they want already a lot of
experience that could be but then you
already also know that maybe it's not
the position for you but if they are
generally a bit more open with their job
description and it's more like a junior
position or an entry-level position then
I think this actually would look great
that that you were able to identify
where your weaknesses and if you were
able to help yourself and that you in
the end were able to find the resources
that were necessary to be able to solve
it I think that is mostly a positive
thing and I guess with active CTFs if
it's just a weekend then also just wait
until the CTF is over just wait two days
and then talk to the people that solved
it and look at write-ups like at this
point is kind of just cheating if you're
then asking because you will get the
solution anyway I want to help you when
you can't figure it out and the fact
that you could figure it out two days
later with write-ups from other people
then that should be sufficient anyway
keep the questions coming and I'm sorry
for when I get maybe a little bit angry
and frustrated in my responses I'm
really really sorry but please let me
have that okay
I'm frustrated but I'm still helping you
okay I might I might have a little bit
of a strong language but I'm still
helping you I'm still here
my goal is still to help you just just
let me have my little bit of frustration
okay that that would be really really
great thank you thank you for that
anyway I hope this wasn't too bad
see you tomorrow
[Music]
