hello everybody I have an announcement
to make the cybersecurity challenge
Germany 2020 is starting now it's a
competition for German school and
university students a CTF it goes three
months so March April and May and it's
an online qualification round there will
be multiple challenges released over
these three months and the best ranking
juniors and seniors will be invited to
an on-site finale and out of that finale
we will create a team that then goes on
to the European cybersecurity challenge
and participates on a European wide
competition against the other countries
but even if you don't make it to the
finals or don't make it to the European
cybersecurity challenge it's still fun
to participate and maybe to get to know
a lot of new people and maybe find other
new friends that are interested in CTF I
will talk a bit more about the
background why I'm suddenly announcing
this and what my involvement here is
with that in the second part of the
video but I just want to quickly give
you an overview of what this challenge
is about and just to give you some
parameters you will find the links to
everything in the description obviously
actually we don't have the domain up
right now as I'm recording this video
but it should all be available once you
see this video so obviously this is a
static video the information I'm sharing
might already be out of date so always
make sure to check the website and the
rules and all the information there
because yeah the stuff I say now might
be out of date so there are three
categories where you can participate in
so there are the juniors which is any
German between the age of 14 and 20
years old you can also participate as a
senior if you are above 20 but below 25
if you are not German or if you are too
old you can still participate in solve
challenges as an external but note that
this doesn't count towards the finals or
anything beyond that it's a mainly a
competition for students but obviously
we want to open it up and for anybody to
solve challenges and learn and explore
and maybe meet new people so part of
this competition is also discord it's
mainly for players to meet each other to
talk to be frustrated and rage about
challenges that they can't solve
and hopefully you know new friends will
be found there and maybe you can find a
CTF team there and all this kind of
stuff
hopefully it's a social place to find
people with the same interest it's again
it's mainly a German competition so this
discord is more like for the German main
participants but there are some
opportunities for international channels
as well and so you know feel free to
join but keep in mind that mainly this
is a communication platform it for the
competition or the German competition
not it's not a life overflow discord
okay so you know you know don't expect
this to be a live overflow community if
you have no experience with CTF then the
scoring of the challenges might be a bit
weird we use a dynamic scoring system
this basically adapts the score based on
how many solves they already were so if
you solve a challenge early it looks
like you get a lot of points but the
more the people solve it the less it
will be worth
there's no rush you don't need to be
first to get a lot of points because
your points will also diminish by the
amount of solves this is a way because
it's very hard to gosh if if a challenge
is hard and gets a lot of points or easy
and gets little points so basically if a
challenge gets solved a lot because it's
easy then it's worth less points in the
end and if a challenge is hard then it
gets little soft and then it will be
worth more points and it's a dynamic
system that will adapt over time so
don't worry about weirdly changing
scores it's part of the idea and it's
also important obviously that no
solutions are being shared as soon as a
solution is leaked becomes public is
shared it will obviously diminish your
points as well hopefully this
discourages you from cooperating with
friends or working in a team because you
know you are participating here as an
individual it's a competition so please
honor that as soon as your share share
the solution of a challenge the points
will draw down obviously we are huge
fans of you know helping each other
sharing interesting resources that you
find tutorials yet that you find share
this with your friends and and and
participate in the competition but don't
cooperate together don't solve
challenges together that would be
really great it's a competition after
all yeah that's all I had to announce
please join the cybersecurity challenge
2020 also if you are from a different
European country check out the local
security challenges as I mentioned in
the end it will be a finals across all
of Europe so there's a good chance that
your country also has a national
equivalent to this and now let's move on
to the second part what is my
involvement here why do I announce this
here on the channel like what's going on
I myself have actually participated in
the cybersecurity challenge Germany in
2013 and 2014 I believe I never went to
the European finals because of personal
reasons but I participated in the German
finals here this is actually a picture
of me from the finals I'm sitting at my
laptop I guess you can recognize me I
just look the same but the bit younger
and actually the person that you can
also peaking forward that you can see
like leaning forward he is also helping
and organizing this event so many of us
that are actually now organizing this
event were participants in the past it
turned out that for a lot of us this
competition was a very important part to
our career and lives we have at least
one very successful startup that came
out of people meeting through that we
have made personally great friends
through that other people have gone on
and found careers and friends and most
importantly the CTF team I'm playing
with the German team alice is a team
that arose from participants at the
cybersecurity challenge Germany the name
Alice actually comes from us being
frustrated in IRC saying I tried
everything
Alice is the German word for everything
I tried everything nothing is working
because the challenges were kind of not
so great back then but this was kind of
like a meme that developed and at some
point suddenly we had a CTF team I I
have no clue so yeah for us it was a
very interesting and fun experience and
I have gained a lot through it even the
journalists weren't that great in the
past and some other stuff but you know
it doesn't really met her the networking
effect that had for me and meeting new
people and finding people interested in
see
yes and having then such a successful
CTF team coming out of it for us means a
lot to me and us and so at the end of
last year an opportunity arose because
the current organisers which wanted to
run this as a for-profit commercial
competition and so they decided to drop
out of the organization and sponsoring
part and we saw this as an opportunity
to take over this mostly commercially
focused competition and make it a
community owned thing so we actually
found it or I guess we are still
technically in the funding process
foundation or item not sure what the
English term is an association in
Germany it's called a 4-iron it's like a
club that will organize this now it's a
community driven Association everything
is transparent there are members we have
meetings everything is basically public
and transparent and easily visible so
there are no commercial interests from
us to make money or anything we even
can't you know we deliberately didn't
create a company to organize this we
deliberately created this public
Association so to be able to be
transparent and have this community
driven focused event so we don't have
commercial interests but we do need
money to run the event especially the
on-site event will be very expensive
because we need to pay for hotel and
travel for all the finalists and all
that stuff and of course this money
always goes back into supporting young
IT security talents that's the main
purpose and goal of this I want to help
with the marketing you know to spread
the word that this is happening so
that's kind of like my part of it I've
also created a couple of challenges for
the CTF so if you are curious about the
challenges I made yes especially when
I'm kind of proud of of variable
becoming later during the event so it's
not there there now but I think they are
going to be quo so there are a few
couple of small things I still want to
quickly mention so obviously the
challenge and also the association has
kind of the main goal of supporting and
German IT security talents young people
so obviously it has somewhat you know
it's a bit gatekeeping it's only for
Germans however
we only see it you know the main purpose
is to organize the challenge that is our
core motivation and this is the German
part of the challenge for this
european-wide event it's a European
white IT security event and we are just
the small part of in Germany you know we
are just a few young people that want to
give back and do something so obviously
we can't do anything on a global scale
and support IT talents everywhere in the
world we obviously most effective
locally here where we are at I wish it
could be more global but you know I will
share the whole experience and anything
that is learned there and what's going
on also here on YouTube in English so
you can still somewhat participate and
kind of like learn from this process
even if you are not a German student the
other small thing is obviously the idea
is here to support young talents one
very important aspect especially
important to me this is not an elitist
supporting thing okay we are not here to
support IQ 200 people it's supporting
young people that are interested in IT
security of any skill level of any
experience of any kind of you know
whatever this is not a place for elitist
and arrogant people to be here like oh
look at me I'm such a great school
hacker this is a supportive place and we
will not tolerate any who comes
in there and ruins it father people and
being toxic as hell and stuff like this
okay we are very hard with this we want
to give people a place where they can go
to and learn in a understanding
environment where they are not judged
whether where they are happy to ask
questions where they can learn and where
they don't feel pressured and scared
being you know arrogant people looking
down upon them this is very very
important to me and very important to
all of us others to zero tolerance for
please please behave and make
this a nice supporting place for
everybody another small thing as obvious
is in the name cyber security challenge
Germany I know I know it's cringy the
first time I heard about this event when
I participated I kind of like you know
participated ironically like who would
even
take an event with such a name seriously
well it is what it is the people that
originally organized it thought that
that's a good name for now we live with
it maybe we change it at some point but
we have so much to think about so much
to organize it's so much work to do you
know changing the name is something
annoying that might happen in the future
or might not happen we don't know it was
just a low priority thing we all know
it's not the coolest name ok but please
don't let this stop you from
participating so yeah I've been quite
busy with preparing videos for this
preparing challenges and also obviously
participating in the whole funding
process of this it's something I'm very
excited about and something I'm a bit
proud about and I hope it helps a lot of
people in in the end and I hope we can
make an awesome event for you I'm really
looking forward to that I'm sure I will
annoy you with update videos about how
the competition is going and keep
advertising it a little bit I hope this
doesn't annoy you I think it's very
relevant to my channel and I think it's
an it's an awesome thing and they are
obviously a cool challenges to have walk
through us and talk about and explore
and it will be interesting because I've
never really been on the side of
organizing a CTF so this is the first
time that I have also written challenges
myself and other people will solve and I
will see their their write-ups of that
because write-ups are required for this
competition so yeah it will be really
interesting and I hope it will be cool
content for the channel as well and one
last thing if you are in a company and
you would like to support such an
association and check out our websites
and Fitz de all this information will be
updated once the foundation is fully
founded so please keep that in mind
there I will remind you about it and
check it out any help is appreciated
there
