okay everybody this was it after 23
daily videos this is the final one and I
don't have any content for you in this
video I just wanted to tell you this was
an insane time for me I will probably
never do this again this was completely
ridiculous but also an interesting
experiment I record this video already a
couple of days ahead of the last video
so I can't tell you all the videos that
I've done but make sure to check out the
hax Ember playlist with all the videos
that I've released during this time I
think we got a good mix of technical
videos and also casual videos if you
have a warped perception that I only did
like casual videos also please check out
the whole playlist because then the
recommendations just recommended to you
the other ones but mainly I use this
opportunity to cover a couple of basic
topics and pitfalls and issues that
people had and told me about throughout
the years and I think it's an awesome
addition for the binary exploitation
playlist you also know that I stopped
the weekly regular uploads so there will
be now just sporadic life overflow
episodes and during this time we also
had one regular life overflow episodes
so even for the people that complain
about the casual style of the other
videos there was still one regular video
for you which was perfectly in schedule
like always so don't you get annoyed you
were served as well but anyway nobody
can tell me anything anyway because I do
this just for fun if you don't like
something just unsubscribe I couldn't
care less well the videos were a lot
more casual and longer than they should
have been because when I create scripts
and record and edit them properly they
are they would be a lot shorter I do
think I was able to cover a lot more
interesting topics and I think maybe it
lightens up things you know in the end
there's this balance of I don't have
time to make all the videos versus
lowering quality to provide more content
it's difficult to find this balance and
this was a very interesting experiment
for me and I don't know yet what kind of
conclusions I draw with it I will look
at the analytics in like a month or so
and I'm sure we'll update you early next
year
in 2020 but I can kind of guess I will
maybe once in a while do a casual video
like this because it's so fast for me to
produce them compared to a regular
episode that I can for example react to
news or
look over a new vulnerability that was
released or so like these kind of style
videos might be easier to do but of
course my big dedication will always be
the edited and scripted videos with a
deeply technical topic like the iOS
exploit video that we did this month or
just any like CTF video of writeable so
this year was pretty insane for me for
the workload but also as you know the
big chapter in my life closed my master
thesis so I'm ready for next year let's
see what next year brings I think I will
take it a bit more slower next year but
I don't know yet I I don't make any
promises because I will not be able to
keep them anyway I will do whatever I
want to do next year but I hope this
advanced calendar of 24 videos in
December there's very spontaneous and I
guess maybe stupid idea from me was fun
to you I got a lot more positive
comments than I usually get people being
happy about these consistent uploads but
it's not something I will keep doing
this is absolutely ridiculous
also I covered most of those things that
were bothering me that I always wanted
to cover so you know I have no basically
a clean slate there are a lot of
thoughts in my head right now I
definitely want to do CTS stuff next
year I hope I get to stream again
continue building the 8-bit computer
over here it's still not finished so I
want to get maybe back into that I'm
also thinking about maybe making a
course or so maybe I also just become an
Instagram influencer at this point I
don't know yet long story short I don't
know yet and I will not make any
promises for next year I think it's bad
to promise anything or announce any
projects that you haven't finished yet
so be surprised what happens next year
I'm sure I will update you for when I
know anything more concrete next year
I just wanted to ramble in this last
video because it was insane making this
episodes and I need an easy joker card
no to just get this 24th video done and
so I can say I completed it and I didn't
fail also don't get any wrong
impressions I don't care about Christmas
at all it just happened to match the
time and everybody was doing like advent
calendar stuff that I kind of felt like
ah well let's hear a reason to do that
too if you celebrate Christmas or
celebrate something else or celebrate
nothing I still hope you have a great
couple of weeks and relaxing times maybe
you can use some of the free time to
learn with some of my videos who knows
play some CTS so I hope you enjoyed this
see you soon
[Music]
