cetf I believe they are one of the best
ways to learn hacking and it's not only
because you learn technically by doing
it but also because it is a competition
it is motivating it's thrilling
or it can be hopefully to you so here's
one suggestion how you should approach
CTS
[Music]
first you go to CTF time dot-org then
you click on upcoming and check the
upcoming CTS personally I like the
Jeopardy CTS the most and I guess you
should make sure that it's an online CTF
when you see a wait for CTF that means
basically two things first of all it
means when you play it and you get
points in the CTF your score will feed
into the yearly overall score on CTF
time which is kind of low you see then
your team or your name being tracked
their overall for others it yes but not
only that for a CTF to have a weight it
also means that they had successful CTF
previously and depending on the
difficulty of the CTF the weight is
higher or lower so cts with a weight of
zero are often new or are not very or
are not difficult at all most of time
they are new and then depending on the
weight score you can see if they are
harder or easier CTS so for example here
the C 3 CTF coming up at the end of the
year again has a very high weight of 63
so this will be a very very difficult
CTF you might be scared to take CTF like
this with a weight and you might tend
towards 0 CTF I mean you should play as
many as you want and you should
definitely check out these zero CTS as
well but I guess if you have them at a
time it's better to look for CTF that
have a weight because generally weighted
CTS are played more which means there
will be more write-ups hopefully first
of all think of a day where you can
spend at least two hours on a CTF and
then you check if there's the CTF at
that day so let's say you play the Xmas
CTF 2019 so there's a website you go
there you register and do all this stuff
and then you play the CTF for two hours
when the CTF happens you will be there
and you will spend your two hours on
basically just researching you will
select one or two challenges that sound
kind of interesting to you and you might
feel like you could maybe understand
them and then you try it out and then
you try your best you research you
google and you take notes take extensive
notes of everything you tried and
everything you thought about any ideas
you
take notes of what you thought and if
you have ideas try to validate them try
to see if they are correct or wrong
anyway you get the point
write a lot of notes about this
challenge if you solve it awesome
Congrats but most likely you will fail
you will not solve any challenge which
is totally fine this is part of the joy
of CTF it should make you frustrated and
thus motivated to find out what the
actual solution will be and don't be
annoying don't go in IRC and ask people
for solutions and hints and tips before
while the CTF is still running that's
really terrible behavior don't do this
and then when the CTF is over you wait a
couple of days maybe even a week or two
weeks and then you go back to CTF time
and you look at the page of that event
and when you scroll down there should be
an events tasks and write-ups button
click on there and then you should see
here the different tasks listed and if
they are right apps available and then
you can click on here on write-ups so
apparently here are three write-ups
let's click on one ok it's basically
just a link to a blog and so now we can
read the right up here of this challenge
and now you study this write-up you read
this write-up and you compare to your
notes where you're on the right track
where you close what did you get right
and then more importantly what did you
get wrong which ideas did you not have
which technologies did you not know
about what kind of attack addressed if
you don't know about analyze yourself
and figure out what you were missing and
I assure you next time you see a
challenge like this you will know it and
this is the whole CTF learning process
if you can't find write-ups on CTF time
there's still a good chance that you can
just google for it when schools indexes
blocks that people were writing or you
can also search on github or github gist
or paste bins directly does that czf
time just googling and github you can
also look on Twitter a lot of times
people will share their write-ups on
Twitter and so you can use the name of
the CTF or kind of a hash tag made out
of it and maybe you can find then
write-ups oftentimes CTFs also have an
IRC channel look in the FA cues of the
CTF it's often sometimes hidden
somewhere there
and be in the IRC channel when the CTF
ends people will then be sharing their
solutions and you can ask questions and
you can just observe also the discussion
what people are writing about challenges
this is also an awesome opportunity to
learn and that's basically the whole
secret to CTF just accept that you don't
know everything and it you will fail a
lot
but each failed CTF challenge is the new
opportunity to learn something
interesting and I encourage you go for
cts that look a bit harder don't go for
the easy ones okay if you just solve
like ten challenges you don't really
learn anything because you already knew
what to do you were just like
speedrunning it at this point this is
kind of a sweet spot that you want to
get you don't want to get too hard
because there are crazy crypto
challenges or ponyville challenges that
are so hard that you need a lot of
experience and this will be frustrating
you will not understand those write-ups
I will not understand them either right
so there are these changes that are too
hard but then there are also the chances
that are way too easy where you don't
learn anything so basically you will you
want to find the sweet spot of a
challenge that is too hard for you right
now but theoretically maybe doable with
enough time or where you then understand
the write-up this is kind of the sweet
spot sometimes you will accidentally try
out the challenge that turned out way
too hard and sometimes it was a way too
easy challenge and you solved it but so
once you do many cts you will often
times run into this nice sweet spot and
this is where you can really really
learn stuff and don't care about the
points don't care how many challenges
you've solved it's not about the points
it's about learning something ok so
don't care about this don't beg for
people for flags or solutions during the
CTF wait until the CTF is over and then
you can ask people now I'm usually
playing with my CTF team but this has
not always been the case for me when I
started I also started alone so don't be
discouraged and have the feeling oh I
need a CTF team everybody's playing in a
CTF team that's not true especially when
you are learning when you're starting
out you will probably do this alone I
play cts for a couple of years alone
until I suddenly ran into my CTF team so
don't worry about that
you will hopefully eventually find
maybe a group of people that you would
like to play city as together with there
are so many discord communities out
there where you if you ask if some
people want to play city as I'm sure you
can find a couple of people to do so and
maybe a team is made out of it anyway
please take two hours try a CTF and then
maybe take another hour a couple of days
or a week later to look at write-ups
that's all I'm asking for
so see you next video
[Music]
you
[Music]
