today I only have a small pen testing
Learning Resource for you I guess it's
mostly interesting for either students
or people that want to transition into
pen testing and I guess especially young
people because this is something that I
wish I had seen before I started to go
into this industry
so when you're going to school and then
maybe also university you still don't
really know how like the real world
works and how exactly this pen testing
look like and so if you have basically
zero experience with that having a
little bit of insight goes a long way of
understanding how this corporate world
kind of works and what people are
looking for and how you should be
working
[Music]
so there's this pretty cool github
repository by giulio cesare fort this is
a curated list of public penetration
test reports released by several
consulting firms and academic security
groups and check this out
there's quite a lot a lot of the
information is now getting older but it
does get occasionally updated if you
find a public report that's not in there
just create a pull request and edit so
let's check out a couple just just for
comparison
so the phone Hoffa Institute it's like
more like an academic institution
ioactive are pretty famous NCC group is
pretty famous in famous maybe Price
Waterhouse Cooper is a very I would say
conservative consulting business so how
they do pen testing that might be
interesting as well so far no far
audited TrueCrypt oh I guess this
project was initiated by the German
official government Federal Office for
information security but so yeah let's
have just a quick look so we have a
summary we have an analysis of
differences between like two versions as
a dedicated review of the encryption
mechanism their code quality and
documentation evaluation of the
architecture definitely looks a bit more
academic you can see this at the typical
la tech fund I'm not going to read now
everything to you but basically what you
can learn from especially the summary
the aim procedure and the results it's
kind of like the high level management
summary what's the language that is
being used here read the study and think
about this and this will help you maybe
you've write your own reports okay so
here are a couple of findings
maybe findings are a good way to compare
how differently the reports are doing it
so here's just a simple headline finding
to finding three fighting for with a
description very condensed very
straightforward so let's check out I Oh
active they looked at bromium in
different layout and they have a quick
like management summary here right at
the start so you can see that the
architecture the source code the runtime
and the penetration test was all secure
so they did a source code review they
say something about the methodology so
if a company shares their method
it might be interesting to you what the
methodology is that these companies were
using you can almost use it like as a
checklist or use it to inspire your own
methodologies you obviously don't have
to follow exactly those methodologies
you can come up with your own but this
is definitely a nice inspiration oh it
wasn't only the summary it wasn't
actually the full full report I guess
this is a little bit with the problem
with like the publicized tests bromium
is obviously a company and they don't
maybe want the details they just want
the fancy good-looking summary for like
advertisement purposes
hashtag advertisement maybe I should
label this here as an advertisement I
mean be aware of this right that
companies might use pen testing reports
as a way to advertise look we are secure
so you don't actually see like the
actual details NCC group looked at key
base so the protocol Security Review
they also have a nice document change
lock so you can like see which words is
and what changed I've also seen this in
other reports is a typical thing again
you can read that they execute a summary
how what what kind of language they are
using I this this might all sound like
ridiculous to people that have been
working in the industry and in
corporations for a long time but I'm
aiming this here at students okay like
as a student I know like this is kind of
interesting and fascinating to be
exposed to for the first time and and I
do believe that getting into this
mindset and being aware of how companies
are working and the language being used
this kind of experience goes a long way
especially if writers start when you are
searching for a job it teaches you a
little bit better how to like navigate
the corporate world I mean I'm not
saying you should study this now about
tens and tens and hundreds of hours but
I think like you know looking through
that for an hour or so I think is a good
experience to you so here they show
exactly the code commit they were
testing on and especially with more
detailed reports like this oh look it's
like it looks very mathematic here it's
actually a quite an interesting learning
resources well now cryptography might
not be you know your domain your
interest in this case but reading
through these you to get a tech idea so
you understand what people are looking
for
like what are the typical issues that
you can find if you don't have the
experience yet what are the typical
issues that you can find you can
actually see here in reports what did
they find what impact they are seeing
maybe what fixes they are suggesting
it's it's a way to kind of like get
experience of pen testing and
understanding like the way of issue is
in the way of working and what kind of
issues you are looking for without
having actually worked in that space yet
so let's look at Price Waterhouse Cooper
security at HM Revenue & Customs Oh age
and Treasuries so this was for the UK
government of course they would go to
Price Waterhouse Cooper I'm not judging
the Pentium I don't know okay I just
know what Price Waterhouse Cooper is
like a you know a conservative hardcore
consulting business you know lots and
lots of monies and Wolff I'm sure they
have enough money to hire an excellent
pentesting team as well I'm not saying
anything about the in the quality here
they probably also use a little bit
different language you know they know
how to produce pages holy crap wait what
the morale is low
HMRC has gone through enormous change
including making efficiency gains and
shedding staff which naturally impacts
on morale staff are wary of change a
clear message from the workshops we run
with frontline personnel is that the
average member of staff has impression
that decisions are short-term tactical
and largely cost focused the data loss
has put further pressure on morale
interesting that's an interesting report
I've never seen this kind of like in a
fantastic but it's also not really a
fantastic report right that's like an
overall review of the information
security landscape and morale might be
important you know how because there's a
threat of obviously disgruntled
employees as well let's see is there
anything technical in there is this more
like a process review stuff it's quite
fascinating to get a little bit of an
insight into how and here the UK
government is working HMRC should map
its end-to-end data flows at the right
level of detail to enable effective
information security risk identification
and management
data flows in HMRC tend to document wait
is there a being missing I'm not a
natives because I could be wrong but I
would say there's a be missing data
flows in HMRC tend to be documented it
right I don't know I don't have anything
to say but again this is probably a very
interesting insight into like how
companies and corporations work I feel
like this can be kind of interesting to
people that just get started with like
the corporate world I mentioned here a
lot like the corporate world but
obviously this might also be helpful to
freelancers I'm not advising you to
become a freelancer especially without
any experience but if you are looking
for any information on how to like
properly work and what kind of reports
maybe a customer expects and how a pen
test reports should maybe look like work
through this repository look at the
style of reports you like and the
details of information and what kind of
services you actually want to offer and
what you can do and I'm sure you have a
better understanding of what what
exactly you are doing you can even find
reports that I worked on it's kind of
embarrassing
[Music]
