okay so this is my first proper vlog
they actually like people in a car over
there it's like a lot more awkward I try
to keep my comments on the awkwardness a
bit low because I'm sure I will do this
in every clip but I will cut it out I
promise so I'm waiting right now on my
right chair to the airport
apparently the right Chester 20 minutes
away so I'm glad I planned in enough
buffer but maybe I should like act as if
it was like super stressful you know a
lot of the vloggers they go like
last-minute to the airport and they are
running and it's it looks always so so
exciting and fun so maybe I should fake
that so that the vlog is more exciting
oh [ __ ] the uber drivers still 20
minutes away this is way too long
waiting oh my gosh this will be so close
to to boarding he got slower to look at
me the bus driver okay so you might also
notice the @ sign in the corner this is
a German regulations while I don't get
paid for it in monetary value they do
pay the flights and the hotel and that
is still a form of payment and so
general regulations require me to
disclose this by saying that this is a
sponsored video and I'm happy to comply
with that because America I'm not sure
if it's required to disclose if it's
just a sponsored trip if flights or
hotels are paid I think maybe only when
it's like a proper sponsored video I'm
not quite sure about this but I'm quite
happy about the German regulations I
didn't record and I talked to myself in
the airport it's so awkward there are so
many people around so I'm trying this
again I put my camera right there so
it's shooting upwards so I don't look
like a crazy person talking into the
camera but yeah I'm really excited
because I will meet you in Vail for the
first time in person and also turn
hemant both of them I've never met
before so that will be
long off a lot of other really awesome
people I went through security and I'm
waiting in my flight it's very awkward
a very good evening ladies gentlemen and
welcome aboard this British Airways
flight to London City
okay so finally arrived at the hotel do
you want to see my setup do you want to
see how I traveled here this this is the
thing I held up a few times or kind of
like hid in my back while I filmed
myself with it
as you can see here at the top I'm not
using a shotgun microphone like most
vloggers do I am try to use this
Sennheiser I don't know what this is
called the reason why I turned on the
camera is because I want to tell you
what what kind of idiot I am so I just
had some time to explore the hotel room
and I went to the bathroom which is very
nice and went in here I wanted to wash
my hands and I did this and I was very
confused by the water wouldn't turn on
well this is this is what happens when
you travel through an airport where
everything is movement
controlled but yeah look here I figured
out the secret
that's how water is made also John got
really unlucky with this flight and
that's a real bummer but yeah this
message also leaks what we will be doing
tomorrow I'm really excited about this
let's leave Park does anybody of you
know what makes Bletchley Park so
special
you
I mean I could now go downstairs with my
luggage and just simply let the person
in the lobby cut it open with scissors
that I'm sure they have that but you
know we could also try to find something
that can help us open it up so here's a
pen but I don't think that it will work
let's see what else we can find
let's see what's in there okay hair
dryer maybe we can like make it very hot
and melt it let's see needles I guess
that could be good mm-hmm
maybe not okay we could definitely try
to melt it let's see maybe there's a
nail clipper no nail clipper but we do
have a nail file I am sure we could file
it off it's like a prison break at this
point so there we go
open it up okay so the spot looks good
let's try this we don't need to file the
whole thing just make it thin enough so
we can easily break it hmm I'm not sure
if that works okay ten more minutes and
then we go to the restaurant this might
sound crazy but I want to use a second
zip tie I think maybe I can build up
enough pressure it worked
see that's why I have a semi-successful
youtube channel just too smart I
especially wanted to open it to get this
out and bring to the restaurant because
I have some leftover flow stickers there
yeah as you can see then I was pretty
great and so now I'm back at the hotel
and I got all my gear out of my suitcase
because I need to charge my stuff so
here I will charge my camera but it will
also charge my audio equipment because
these are battery-powered also if you
follow me on Twitter you might have
heard that I wrecked my old MacBook I
accidentally spilled Cola over it so
this is my new MacBook and I had to
place new stickers on there and when I
started to play stickers I noticed that
all of the stickers I want to place all
I kind of like red white and black and
so now I kind of want to keep the theme
up I think I will just put here stickers
that match the color theme I've never
done that before but that that seems
like it could work out well anyway I
think it's time for bed so let's see you
tomorrow
good morning I just had a shower and I
will now go to breakfast and then I will
meet the others in the lobby to head to
Bletchley Park
and look cool coincidentally showed up -
what a surprise what are you okay we are
right now at Bletchley Park at the place
where the UK code breakers were breaking
the Enigma our effective pointed stuff
and an act excited who do you trust on
the Internet not this guy let's see more
of this place
finally outside we were just saying that
this place doesn't really look like a
military base look at how pretty with
the lake and a pretty house
okay look doesn't this sound like
playing CTF
there's this enormous excitement in
code-breaking that what appears to be
attached abhrush really makes sense only
if you have the key and I could do that
sort of thing for thirty hours and a
stretch and never feel tired so all the
different buildings where the people
have worked here are called Hut's and we
were in one hut with a small museum
about the Enigma machine and other other
machines and one interesting detail that
I didn't really realize was that you
might be aware that they built like
machines to automate certain analysis of
the code breaking process with the
Enigma essentially a brute-forcing
machine and I thought like there was
like one also right but I read on one
plate that there were over 200 of these
machines built which I found really
really mind-blowing
subscribe to John Hammond this is Alan
Turing's office or a recreation of it
how can such a brilliant man work on
such a tiny desk alright we are back at
the Euston station now heading back to
the hotel jail them so basically there
will be two events in parallel there's
the Google CTF the finals for all the
teams that qualified during the
qualification CTF this other event is
for the back bounty hunters that
participate in for example the chrome
Android or generally like the whole
Google web products back hunting so they
give some talks to each other and of
course they just meet and exchange
information and to maybe learn new stuff
as well
and so the CTF is on Saturday and Sunday
but there's already a little bit of CTF
programming planned for tomorrow which
is mainly an office tour of the Google
offices I don't know if or how much I'm
allowed to film there but we will see
but before that there will be already
talks by VR peace or vulnerability a
rewards program that's generally like
the Google bug bounty stuff and I hope
that I can see those talks and I might
be able to tell you a little bit about
that as well in terms of awkwardness
about talking into the camera it was a
lot easier today I tried a couple of
times in public and it's a lot easier
now it's not as awkward anymore I think
a big point of it is that I'm now in an
english-speaking environment because
when when I have tried to do this in
Germany I speak English in a drone
public place and I will be gone soon I
won't see these people anymore so I I
think these two
things contribute to making it a bit
more comfortable to do here I also just
quickly changed my clothes because I
don't know how fancy the restaurant will
be that we will be heading to and I felt
like I need to address more
appropriately I always have to bring my
backpack wherever I go because without
it I feel very naked maybe I should put
on shoes let's go meet the others in the
lobby and then let's head to dinner
almost forgot my wallet my phone also
the best thing about hotels is and very
important always self does
[Music]
you
[Music]
