after my previous video where I was
showing a typical day of me pen testing
I wanted to show you how to get into it
so typically a lot of people think that
the easiest trick to learn is this one
in some sense it's easy because you just
pass the pen from in-between fingers to
the next one but mastering it to make it
very smooth is extremely difficult even
me with a fairly heavy pen can't do it a
much easier trick is this one here and
that is super easy all you have to do is
hold the pen on one side like this see
how I roughly have my thumb and index
finger in the middle of the upper half
and I placed the middle finger in the
middle of the pen a common mistake I see
is that people start holding the pen
with index and thumb in the middle but
that won't work
hold it in the upper half then make sure
your hand and wrist is kind of straight
while the pen is pointing down
diagonally then you just have to release
the pen by removing the index finger and
at the same time push it with the middle
finger not hard just enough to give it a
push but also not too weak and look how
stable my wrist is another typical
mistake is that you turn the wrist and
some kind of reflex to go after the
flying pin to catch it so don't do it
keep your hand and wrist not moving at
all keep it straight we are to hold the
pen is actually more based on that after
half a turn the middle of the pen should
be on your thumb so that's why we have
to start with the pen more to the other
side when you push it and it flies
around the middle point is where the
thumb is and then it finishes the
rotation another typical mistake is that
the thump is put down and that can be
actually used for another trick to let
the pen spin on top of the thumb though
for this easy trick you just want to
keep it up of course you don't want to
get cramps in your hand so keep it
relaxed just enough force to hold the
pen in place and enough force to push it
around the thumb
also the heavier the pendants the easier
it is with a very light pencil it's also
easy but not as easy so just put some
heavier caps on both sides of a pen like
i mothered this one here and then it's
perfect
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
