welcome to video right up from the
internet version CTF 2016 this video
will be about three web challenges that
I saw besides those three web challenges
I have also solves three crypto and
three exploitation challenges for which
I will also make a video so let's start
with the first web 50 challenge called
mess of hash student have developed a
new admin locking technique adopted it's
secure but its hash hasn't been
crackable we get a URL to the login page
and also a sip file with the source code
the zip file contains a readme which has
PHP code snippets inside so we see that
there's a certain admin user and the s-1
password seems to be a hash and we also
get the two functions clean hash which
is cleaning up a little bit replacing
some characters and we have a function
called my head which does md5 two times
over the input string with a certain
salt and obviously because this is our
login the password has to be compared
and usually you would compare the hashes
from the input and if you know a little
bit of PHP then you know maybe about
this crazy handling of types in PHP
because PHP automatically converts
certain times into other types
when possible and you can see that the
result is true those two different
strings are true because PHP comes up
with this great idea to automatically
convert the string into a number and 0e
and a certain number is a very very tiny
number it's basically zero as you can
see here so it's basically comparing two
zeros with each other two numbers so now
we just have to brute-force the input
that after two rounds of md5 with the
salt produces a similar number that will
be compared so let's look for generating
some random strings in PHP so that we
can simply brute-force this so let's
copy that code here to generate the
random string and then let's just simply
create a while loop around get
generating random strings applying the
hash function to it and then compare it
to the admin password and if that
comparison is correct with then print
the password and just simply exit main
are also a little mistake here at the
wire loop missing parentheses and then
we can simply copy this code and paste
it into a PHP shell and now the loop is
running and we are slowly brute-forcing
it let's open another one and create
another instance to utilize multiple
cores on the system to brute forces so
this will take a little while and it
actually took longer than I thought it
would but in the meantime we can start
working on another challenge so let's
check out the web sixty challenge
the title is replace with grace regular
expressions are pretty useful especially
when you need to search and replace
complex terms so let's look at the
service URL and if you know a little bit
of PHP rec X's you will know that if you
fully control the x string that is
passed to for example preg match in PHP
that you can have remote code execution
and there's the special rec X modifier
called prec replace evil which you can
already see those caution things that it
can evaluate PHP code so let's write the
expression with the slashes and
basically we want to match any character
and we add the special evil modifier to
records the next line really doesn't
matter much but the third one is
important because this is where the
matched string would be passed to and we
can use backticks because backticks will
execute a system command in PHP and as
you can see we successfully executed LS
- la and then we can see that there's a
file called flag dot PHP which we then
can simply read with cat so here is the
flag let's submit it and correct flag so
let's move on to the next web challenge
web ad and it reads old school blog I
stumble across this kinda old school
block I bet it's unhackable I mean
there's only static HTML so let's have a
look at the block and it looks pretty
boring there seems to me not much to
interact with but if you Lee read those
blog posts you'll find that he had been
looking at a tool called git and if you
have to use git before you know that
gate creates a special folder called git
which is usually hidden when you
or something but you can see that dot
get if you try to access that one it
gives us a forbidden because we are not
allowed to read the directory rather
then not found like we did with some
arbitrary random string so there seems
to be a dot git folder available now
let's explore how a git repository looks
like so I simply go to my github and
clone my YouTube repository here and
then we can explore the git folder what
kind of files are included there when we
look at this dot git folder there's
quite some stuff with fine we can
display the whole hierarchy inside those
folders so first of all there are those
objects stored in different subfolders
and they are hashes and they are
unlikely to be the same on this remote
service but there are other files that
are static or have the same name in
every git repository so in as a first
step we try to download those files so
I've created here a text document with
typical files and photos from that get
repository and I've added the URL and
then I just basically make a shell
script out of it and W get all those
files so let's make the script
executable and execute it and download
all the files cool some of this works
and downloads some other files don't
work so let's explore what kind of files
we were able to download and what kind
of information they contain you can find
good documentation online on how git is
structured so I did a little bit of
research while doing this challenge so I
know that in this logs folder there is
this file head which contains
information about the commit history the
you can see here the commit text as well
as different kinds of hashes so now you
can slowly make your way through the
gated jungle I know that from this
research that those hashes here
reference objects which obviously
contain in the object subdirectory and
it works like that that the first byte
or the first two characters here from
this expert presentation is one
subfolder and then the remaining hashes
are sorted in there so that's kind of
like a little bit of hashing algorithm
if you in hashing in the original sense
meaning of the word
hashing of organizing data so we can use
this and download these objects as you
can see they exist and now we can even
start using regular git commands like
git log and we see this git log of
commits and who made those commits but
it also has another cool tool called git
fsck
which helps you to find missing files or
corrupted files and yep you can see the
output of here and you see that there
are a couple of broken links and missing
blobs and trees and those are more
object hashes that are missing with git
log - P we should be able to see the
full changelog of the files so basically
the file contents how it changed but you
get an error that there are those
missing objects so we just gather those
hashes and also download them so just
copy them into the shell script and then
I also remove the ones that appear twice
and then I add the W get minus R command
to also download these objects so let's
run the script now and we see that we
download even more objects so let's get
back into the git repository and now
let's try get lock minus P and it
actually says here that it works now
there's no error so let's do again get
fsck and see if they are still stuff
missing and we get more hashes that are
now missing and we can basically do the
same again seems like only three also
are missing so let's just copy them here
in the shell we don't have to execute
this script and yeah so we download more
let's have a look at the get command
output now and boom we get the changes
of the files and you can see that
apparently in a previous version of the
site there was the flag included and now
we can just copy this and we get correct
flag let's see if we found a valid hash
for the first challenge but PHP is still
running hasn't found a hash yet so we
just have to wait okay
now quite some time later we've
apparently got an output that should
produce a ballot hash that bypasses the
comparison in PHP so let's go to the
login page again and then we can enter
the admin username which we know from
the readme file
and then just copy the password that we
apparently found and indeed we were able
to log in and we got deflect and we get
incorrect to play
